Johannesburg - A woman was shot and killed in a hijacking in Alexandra township on Friday morning around 6am. The hijackers shot her, then threw her body out of the car, leaving the body on the side of the road. Later police covered the body with a silver foil as they looked around for clues with regards to who her killers may be. According to Gauteng Police spokeswoman Brigadier Mathapelo Peters, i t's not known yet where she was from or where she was going but witnesses told police that a group of between  four or five men ambushed her at the traffic lights and shot her. "She is about 45 years old and we understand that she was driving a KIA. We don't know yet if it was a sedan or a 4x4 as all that information will be revealed during investigations. "She was shot in the body and we can't say how many times. A case of hijacking and murder have been opened," she said. There are allegations that the car was later found but Peters could not confirm that. According to the quarterly Tracker Vehicle Crime Index released last month, which  highlights theft and hijacking trends and the majority (58%) of all activations, where Tracker initiated recovery action, are in Gauteng. “Hostage taking during hijackings remains a concern. Similar to the company’s vehicle crime statistics for the period July 2018 to June 2019, an average of 29% of Tracker’s activations result in a hostage being taken, with 1% suffering a physical injury or fatality. "Criminals impersonating law enforcement officials in order to commit hijackings, a method otherwise known as blue light robberies, also remains a concern,” said Tracker. Tracker also revealed that hotspots in the province were on the N3 from Heidelberg to Vosloorus, the N12 from Phola to Daveyton, South Rand Road (N17), the R50/ Delmas Road, the N14, the R512, the Moroka Bypass on the N12, the Molefe Makinta Highway (M21), the Sybrand van Niekerk Freeway (R59) and the R21. Tracker warned that most hijackings take place on Saturday followed by Thursday. “Hijackings take place between 10:00 and 14:00 as well as 20:00 and midnight, on any day of the week, while theft activations occur mainly between 05:00 and 08:00,” according Tracker.        