Mabitsela, a Grade 2 learner from Randburg, has already roped in two of his friends, his aunt and mother to help him grow his stationery business. His “office” space is situated at his mother’s business building, also in Randburg. Quirk Quirk Inc, Omphile’s business, produces and supplies a variety of paper-based stationery, such as bookmarks and party packs and sells puzzles, crayons and pencil cases. He told The Star this week he wanted to be the person who hired the unemployed who he heard President Cyril Ramaphosa speaking about in the media. It was announced recently the country’s unemployment rate had shot up to 29.1%. “President Ramaphosa told us there are so many people who are not hired so I want to be that person who hires them,” Omphile said. His mother, Prudence Mabitsela, said parents needed to instill entrepreneurial skills into their children to become self-starters and not necessarily wait for jobs. “We should stop creating job seekers as a country and start creating jobs ourselves,” she said. The young mogul said he was inspired by his mother to start his business which has been in existence for a year now. It also has its own website. “It was my mother that inspired me to start my business because she is a business owner as well. I want to hire people who don’t have jobs,” he said. Quirk Quirk Inc is a registered and 100% black-owned business. Omphile mixes his academics and arts to produce his products. He said his passion was inspired by his friend who showed him his “quacks quacks” and that inspired him to make bookmarks for people who read books. These sold for R10 each. His mother said Omphile was someone who was aware of his surroundings and wanted to assist where he could. “He has hired a team which consists of social strategists, a brand manager and a receptionist,” she said. Omphile said his target audience is from everywhere in South Africa and people can order items online. His parents initially funded the company which eventually grew to be self-sustainable. The determined young man said he was motivated by unemployed people seeking jobs and knowing that he can be the solution in inspiring people to be business-minded. “I want to inspire them to have their own company,” he said. The company has sold more than 1000 products countrywide.