Johannesburg - It has not always been roses and happiness for South Africa’s celebrated KFC couple. While they might be enjoying new-found fame, Hector Mkansi and Nonhlanhla Soldaat have not always had it easy in their nine-year relationship. The couple met at a funeral when Soldaat was 18 and Mkansi was 27. A few years into their relationship, the couple were involved in a horrific car accident during the Easter weekend of 2014, which left Soldaat in hospital for almost two months because of a spine injury. She spent the next six weeks undergoing rehabilitation and physiotherapy which helped her to walk again. Soldaat said this incident brought them closer and strengthened their relationship. “Hector never left my side and we were far from home. He was also close to me and the hospital staff knew this man was always with me,” she said. Mkansi said that only death would separate them. “We met at a funeral and we will leave each other at a funeral,” he said. The couple’s proposal video at a fried chicken outlet in the Vaal went viral and even made international headlines, winning South Africans’ hearts over a week ago. Mkansi said because of their financial situation, he was only able to complete the lobolo last year - and they then got married in December. “Our wedding happened, but not in the way I had hoped it would,” Mkansi said. He said he had big dreams for his wedding, including him and his bride arriving at the venue suspended in the air by a helicopter and him holding on to his wife. Mkansi’s dream for an extravagant wedding came true after the video of their proposal went viral and gifts - which included an exotic honeymoon at exclusive lodges, car and air trips for the wedding and honeymoon, and performances from celebrated musicians - poured in for them. Soldaat said she only came to grips with what had happened on Thursday night. “It was only then when I started feeling emotional. I cried when I was going to sleep. “All along I didn’t cry or jump for joy, I was going along with everything, but then it really hit me that this is happening,” she said. The couple said they would not decide on the date of the wedding until their respective families had met and discussed it. However, they said they would give South Africans what they wanted and the wedding would not be private. “We are where we are today because of South Africa, so we’re going to give them what they asked for,” Mkansi said. The couple said they never thought they would reach a point in their lives when their friends and family would need to make an appointment to see them. Soldaat said her cousins tried to organise a braai for them over the weekend to celebrate the proposal, however, their now busy schedules would not allow it. “They must understand that celebrities are waited for. From now on if they want to see us, they must check with our schedule,” Mkansi said jokingly. He excitedly added that wherever they went, they were treated like royalty, with their car doors opened for them. “They (KFC employees) treat us like they’re holding eggs. They say, ‘Are you alright? Would you like some water or drink?’,” he said. The Star