Social entrepreneurs at the Red Bull Amaphiko Academy shared stories of their journeys to entrepreneurship. The academy that kicked off last week, saw 14 social entrepreneurs opening up about the inspirational moments that drove their businesses initiatives to where they are today. Sharing with other entrepreneurs at the Academy on Friday, Global Leading Light Initiatives founder Allo Dieudonne said passion and wanting to help others realise their dreams made him drop his career of nine years as a teacher to focus on the non-profit organisation. The Eastern Cape based Dieudonne, 42, said: “I started the organisation to identify skills in learners and school drop outs including those classified as living with disabilities to support and make them utilize and transform their skills.” Cameroonian Dieudonne started his organisation in 2017 with the aim to create space in schools and communities to allow people to use and convert their skills into a product or service for employment purposes. He said  through a school innovation lab, his organisation teaches robotics and coding through after school programmes, weekend programs and holiday camps. “We are in partnership with the Industrial Development Corporation, it provides us with tools and materials used by the learners." Dieudonne said he learnt to infuse his teaching experience with what he does at his organisation. Allo Dieudonne “Before I came here, I knew what my organisation does, but couldn't explain it to someone else. I am glad that after the coaching we had, I am now able to tell another person what I do,” he said. Another social entrepreneur, Nkanyiso Madlala from Durban, Kwazulu Natal highlighted his journey to being a  founder of Light Shines Program.  “It doesn't matter where one comes from, what matters is the vision in them.” Madlala, 36, who was raised by his grandfather, said he refused to be what his grandfather wanted him to be.  “I dropped out of school took drugs; did all the bad things one can think of until that one day my grandfather came to my rescue. “He got me a job and convinced me into signing a contract, but as I was about to sign,it dawned on me to start taking charge of my life,” he said. Madlala who started his program of installing energy efficient street lights within informal settlement in 2018 aims to not only make these spaces safer but also help municipalities save money. 