The Skeem Saam actor is among a group of hikers who will be taking part in this year’s expedition of the Trek4Mandela campaign next month, which aims to keep indigent young girls in school and provide them with basic needs such as sanitary towels. Through the help of the organisers - Imbumba Foundation, the Nelson Mandela Foundation and Caring4Girls - the group has been raising funds for the sanitary towels ahead of their summit scheduled to coincide with Nelson Mandela’s birthday on July 18. They leave for Tanzania on July 13 and the second group of hikers, which includes former public protector Thuli Madonsela, is expected to follow in August. Maosa, who completed the 2018 Soweto Marathon, said hiking had never crossed his mind. He only started hiking this year when he joined the Trek4Mandela campaign which saw him taking part in two recommended training hikes in the Drakensberg. “I first knew about Trek4Mandela on social media in 2013 but didn’t think much of it and was sceptical of hiking because it’s something I have never done despite my love for gym and running. But I’m always up for a challenge,” said Maosa. Climbing the mountain which reaches to 5895m above sea level is not an easy feat and many have been humbled by it in their quest. About 30000 people climb Kilimanjaro yearly and about 1000 are evacuated. And at least 10 deaths have been recorded there annually. South Africa’s race driver Gugu Zulu perished on the mountain in 2016 after suffering health problems. “Some people have already began asking me if I’m ready. I’m fit and I can’t fear the unknown and am prepared to go there and try my best. “(Hiking) is more about mental fitness which is something I’ve been working hard on. The two trips to the Drakensberg have taught me about mental fitness,” said the Limpopo-born actor. In preparing for Kilimanjaro, Maosa has been going to the gym three times a week and hiking the notorious Westcliff steps on weekends.  Maosa and Imbumba Foundation chief executive Richard Mabaso have been visiting schools in Gauteng, Limpopo, KwaZulu-Natal and Mpumalanga to give motivational talks to pupils and hand over sanitary towels. He said climbing Kilimanjaro was also a personal journey, which he wanted to dedicate to people close to him that he had lost, such as his parents and actors Akhumzi Jezile and Dumi Masilela. “I’ve lost so many people (that) I didn’t want to live any more. This (expedition) is a tribute to them and I want to also show my peers not to be afraid of the unknown. Anything is possible as long as one believes in themselves,” said Maosa. The Star reporter Lindile Sifile will be part of next month’s expedition. To help him raise funds for girls SMS “LINDILE” to 42513 to pledge R30.