Certain events in different people's lives usually become the kind of nudge they need to evaluate their lives, careers and choices. For Lebo Madiba, who was recently appointed Ogilvy’s new Managing Partner for Public Relations & Influence, it was being retrenched. In the early 2000s, Madiba left her job in a small PR agency at the height of the dot.com bubble for what she thought at the time was greener pastures. Shortly afterwards, however,  the bubble burst happened. The company lost clients and she was retrenched. “That retrenchment was a turning point in my career. I pledged to myself that I would be deliberate with my choices, as growth opportunities for my career progression,” Madiba said. While sitting at home one day with no job to go to, she came across a magazine interview with PR doyen Moky Makura, who was at the time Managing Director of the PR arm of FCB Africa. Madiba immediately fell in love with her story and knew at that moment that she wanted to work with her. “I wrote to her frequently to introduce myself until she eventually called with an invitation to meet. The encounter evolved into a temporary contract as an Account Manager – which subsequently resulted in a five year tenure at the agency; later departing as Business Unit Director, with oversight of the agency’s Johannesburg operation,” she said. That experience positioned and prepared Madiba for everything that was to happen in her career moving forward. Madiba, who is taking over from Joanna Oosthuizen who was promoted to Chief Operating Officer for Ogilvy South Africa, sees assuming her position as something that will help open doors for those that come after her, especially “in spaces which traditionally seemed unattainable for women, and particularly black women”. Relatability and representation are concepts Madiba believes in as she is aware that there is inspiration for many young people in seeing leaders that look like them. “While it is exciting, it is also a big responsibility that I do not take lightly. Recent career experience has exposed me to how, being the only black woman in the room can feel pretty lonely, and make anyone feel visibly invisible, and that there is an unconscious bias that we have to work on all the time to undo, because real transformation requires meaningful participation. “I am assuming this role knowing that I have a responsibility to create and offer proximity to fellow black women, so that #BlackChildItsPossible moves off the socials into boardrooms, becomes a reality for many and not so much of an anomaly,” Madiba said. Although she has been in the industry for 20 years, it has not always been smooth sailing for Madiba. In building her career, some of the relationships she had worked hard at were broken along the way. At some point she suffered from acute exhaustion which emanated from the drive to achieve and define her space, in a male dominated industry. However, the bad came with the good too and one of the highlights that still stand out for her today is being Chillibush PR’s Managing Director at age 29. She also successfully ran a PR Powerhouse with the portfolio that included blue chip clients such as Nedbank, Cricket South Africa and SAA. “That  was affirmation that I am good at what I do, and that this calibre of clients had the confidence and - trust in - my team and I, to - manage their brands.” This Youth Month, Madiba's advice to all the young people despondent while battling unemployment is to strive to be a little bit more creative and go beyond just circulating CVs. She also said they need to take advantage of social media as it has created as it has created an avenue that wasn’t previously available. “If one is in the media or creative space for example, use social media to build a ‘live’ portfolio – e.g. if you are a writer, start a blog, promote it on your social media platforms to showcase your writing, ensure you follow the right type of people who have the potential to pick up on your work. “Be intentional with the job hunting, have a ‘hit list’ and a plan on how you are going to ensure that the companies on your ‘hit list’ are going to notice you. Go beyond the CV – there are so many people, equally qualified, looking for employment, the guiding principle should always be how are you going to get noticed,” she advised. With regards to the contentious experience, which many young people complain about saying employers demand before employing them, Madiba’s view on the issue is that young people should take internships even if the stipend is measly. “What you are buying yourself is a foot in the door, get yourself into the system. It is easier to navigate and find your way from the inside than it is from the outside,” Madiba said. 