As soon as the work was completed, the company rehabilitated the green space, and today it is a phenomenal resource for the Sandton community, as well as for local and international visitors. Many people have asked about the name and want to know if there was ever a mushroom farm in central Sandton. The following article, compiled by Avril Reid and first published in the Sandton Historical Association’s 1994 journal, sheds some light on the matter: The “Mushroom Farm” is a tranquil and green public park near Sandton City with a pond and a small stream flowing though it. Surrounded by high-rise office buildings, flats and town houses, this park is an oasis in the busy hub of the business world. But why the strange name “Mushroom Farm”? The reason is simple - because that’s just what it used to be. Where the park is today, during the 1950s and 1960s there was a thriving mushroom farm and cannery named after the small stream on the property, known as the “Silver Stream”. Indeed, many people will remember the well-known brand of high-quality mushrooms that traded under the name but which are no longer on the market. Before its mushroom days, the property consisted of about 3 hectares bounded by Katherine Street and Linden Road, Sandown. It was here that eminent gynaecologist Dr Charles Kark built his delightful thatched homed called “Longisile”, or in English, “Everything will be all right”. The address was 103 Katherine Street. The pleasant home was built in 1944, and Kark and his wife Thelma laid out an attractive garden, specialising in growing roses and asparagus. Kark was born in 1894 at Joburg’s Simmer & Jack Mine, one of a family of seven. During the South African War the family were evacuated to Cape Town. Then, after his schooling there, Charles gained a scholarship to the Wits School of Mines, known then as the “Tin Temple”, and which eventually became the University of the Witwatersrand. He followed his course at the Tin Temple by studying physiology and anatomy at the University of Cape Town, and then went to London to study medicine at Guy’s Hospital, later specialising in gynaecology and obstetrics. He returned to Joburg in 1931, where he subsequently became one of South Africa’s leading gynaecologists. Prior to his retirement, his scientific leanings led him to start investigating the possibilities of mushroom growing, and when he retired from medicine around 1951, feeling that he needed a challenge, he decided to take mushroom cultivation more seriously. There wasn't much information about growing mushrooms in South Africa at that time, and Kark got little help from local documentation, there being no other major growers of mushrooms in the country. So, persisting in his research, he travelled to Europe, attended seminars and exhibitions, and then returned to start his new career. Silver Stream prospered in the early 1960s, and in 1967 Kark sold the operation to Tiger Oats, staying with the company in an advisory capacity for a further four years. Tiger Oats later sold to Tongaat Mushrooms, which already incorporated Denny Mushrooms. The laboratories and factory were gradually moved away from Sandown, and in due course the land was acquired by the Sandton council. Kark died in 1991, aged 97, fondly remembered by the many babies he delivered during his first career and immortalised now by Sandton’s Mushroom Farm in his second career. The fact that Sandton's Mushroom Farm Park is now available for all to enjoy is a fitting tribute to a man of such energy.