Chipinge, Zimbabwe - Mozambique on Wednesday began three days of national mourning for more than 200 victims of Cyclone Idai. The full extent of the devastation will only be known once floodwaters from torrential rains, expected to continue into Thursday, recede. It will be days before Mozambique's inundated plains drain toward the Indian Ocean, and aid groups warned the waters were still rising. People have been reported clinging to rooftops and trees. Zimbabwean President Emmerson Mnangagwa received a sombre welcome in the hard-hit mountain community of Chimanimani near the border with Mozambique. Zimbabwean officials say some 350 people may have died. Some bodies from Zimbabwe have been swept down the mountainside into Mozambique. "Some of the peasants in Mozambique were calling some of our people to say, 'We see bodies, we believe those bodies are coming from Zimbabwe,'" said July Moyo, the minister of local government. Mozambique's president late Tuesday said more than 200 people were confirmed dead there. President Filipe Nyusi after flying over the affected region on Monday said he expected more than 1 000 deaths. "Flood waters are predicted to rise significantly in the coming days and 350,000 people are at risk," the U.N. humanitarian office said Tuesday. Aid workers were shocked as they arrived in the badly hit Mozambique port city of Beira, estimated to be 90 percent destroyed. Its 500 000 residents are scrambling for food, fuel and medicine. Some neighbourhoods are below sea level. "The power of the cyclone is visible everywhere with shipping containers moved like little Lego blocks," the aid group CARE's Mozambique country director Marc Nosbach said.  "Everyone is doubling, tripling, quadrupling whatever they were planning" in terms of aid, said Caroline Haga of the Red Cross in Beira. "It's much larger than anyone could ever anticipate." On Wednesday, the Emirates News Agency cited the Emirates Red Crescent as saying that the United Arab Emirates would provide 18.3 million dirhams ($4.9 million) to Mozambique, Zimbabwe and Malawi. Zimbabwe's president said a planeload of aid from the UAE was expected to arrive in the capital, Harare, later Wednesday. And the chairman of the African Union Commission said the continental body would provide $350,000 in immediate support to the countries. The European Union has released 3.5 million euros ($3.9 million) in emergency aid, and the United Kingdom pledged up to 6 million pounds ($7.9 million). Tanzania's military has airlifted 238 tons of food and medicine, and three Indian naval ships have been diverted to Beira to help with evacuations of stranded people and other efforts. Sacha Myers of the nonprofit Save the Children, speaking from Mozambique's capital, Maputo, described rising floodwaters and "rivers and dams bursting their banks" in the days after the cyclone roared ashore over the weekend. She awaited the arrival of a cargo plane carrying 51 tons of emergency supplies but said getting them where they needed to go was difficult. Roads and bridges across the region have been washed away or submerged. In Beira, Mozambique Telecom said some mobile phone communications had been restored to the city that is quickly becoming the staging area for the emergency response. AP