The 35-year-old has reintroduced herself to the industry with a new single titled Coffee. “It is a personification of my life. My previous music was all about pain and the experiences I have had. “I took a two-year breather because I needed a new sound.” Rudoluv, whose real name is Skhumbuzo Bikwa, said she found a way out of being in a constant depression because of the abusive relationship she was in. “I needed to find the sexy in me because it had been suppressed for so long. At a point I wasn’t feeling beautiful, I wasn’t sure who would call me that. Coffee was me dragging out that spark and being bold enough to sing about it.” Rudoluv grew up in a musical family. “Music wasn’t a decision, it is something that was in my genes. My father played bass for the likes of Brenda Fassie and Oliver Mtukudzi. Our living room was filled with instruments, from the guitar to the drums.” Her first attempt at a musical career was short-lived because she went into a depression slump. “I was in the studio recording music, and just as I was trying to get rooted in the industry, I went through these obstacles and then the depression hit. I had to move to another province, I lost my mother and filed for divorce. It didn’t afford me the luxury to write music, I was blank.” She met her ex-husband in 2000. “I had been with him since I was a ‘baby’ in matric. When I grew and evolved, he couldn’t quite understand, and there was a discourse happening. He wouldn't tolerate that.” The couple married in 2007 and the divorce was finalised in March last year. It took a while for Rudoluv to get back into things but now she is ready for anything because her experience has shaped her. “I’m versatile and able to dig deep and talk about a dark place in my life. I can be light and laugh and joke. I can be sexy. I am not rigid or stuck in my ways. “I want people to listen to my music and see it as a way out of their unhappiness. I am selling hope. I want to be more vocal because sometimes we betray ourselves and our listeners by portraying only beauty and not what goes on inside us. I am as real as they get.” She says she wants people to realise it is possible to get out of a bad situation and live a full life. Rudoluv’s EP will be coming out later this year. @mane_mpi