While many people spent their Heritage Day enjoying the sounds of local artists at various concerts around Joburg, Johnnie Walker took celebrities and media on a cultural tour to some of the first discovery sites of the country. To celebrate the unveiling of their Blue Label NOMAD bottle, the Diageo group decided to pay homage to the beauty of South Africa's heritage with its packaging that displays the rare discoveries of the Motherland and uncover the rich artistic history of the country. The first stop was the Sterkfontein Caves where the group explored the first discoveries of mankind. Tour guide Onica Kekae explained that the caves were the most famous in Gauteng. "These caves are taken as the richest fossil site around the world as they are the only caves that produced more than 1600 fossils including the famous Mrs Ples and Little Foot. The main reason why the fossils were preserved around this area is because it is classified as a dolomitic lime area. Dolomite rock has calcium carbonate so if it wasn't for that mineral no fossils would have been discovered." After the tour around the caves the group was taken to Moledi Gorge to appreciate the scenic views of the North West. In attendance was designer Rich Mnisi who recently represented SA by winning the  Emerging Designer of the Year at the Essence Best in Black Fashion awards. TV presenter Andile Ncube, actress Enhle Mbali Maphumulo and singer Langa Mavuso all dressed the part to celebrate heritage and take in the experience. "We are the most celebrated when it comes to diversity. No other country can boast the splendour that is South Africa. As the brand we are celebrating six of rarest discoveries of the country," said Lesedi Mashale, Head of PR and Events at Diageo. "Johnnie Walker Blue is considered one of the rarest discoveries, out of 10 000 casks that are created only a few are ever bottled for sale within the different countries. So as part of that story, one of eight countries around the world have created limited edition bottle designs to celebrate their most cherished nations," she added. For South Africa the six discoveries are the Blue Diamond discovered in 2014, the Cradle of Humankind, the Protea national flower, the Waterberg butterfly that is only found in the Western Cape, the Shweshwe print and the Hole in the Wall in the Eastern Cape.