Johannesburg -  Former SABC COO Hlaudi Motsoeneng says he continues to be disturbed by allegations that he lied about completing his matric. The former SABC boss was testifying at the Zondo commission on Tuesday. While testifying he was flanked by a large group of supporters who travelled from QwaQwa. He faced questions from evidence leader Advocate Thandi Norman who asked him about allegations that he had lied about the status of his matric. He insisted that he never lied and said he was still bothered by those that continue stating that he had done so. Motsoeneng was boastful throughout his testimony on his achievements at the SABC. "I never lied, chairperson. God knows, I never lied. Those people who have employed me, they know. It doesn't go well with me when everyone, media and others, they portray me as a liar, including [former] Public Protector [Thuli Madonsela]. It is an insult for people to say I lied about matric. It doesn't go well with me when everyone portrays me as a liar, including public protector,” he said. Former Public Protector Thuli Madonsela had published a report into her office’s investigation into the SABC. She found that Motsoeneng should not have been employed at the SABC as he did not have a matric. Motsoeneng insisted that even though he does not have a matric, he had the required skills to work at the broadcaster and had risen through the ranks and even trained high profile individuals who were more qualified than him. "There are many people at the SABC who do not have matric certificates. The history of the SABC is that most people who are excelling do not have formal qualifications... but they are talented. I received many awards from the SABC and from outside. Inn my view, I am very educated. If you check the minutes of the SABC, I was behind 70 percent of decisions taken. No one was better than me at the SABC.... I even lectured at universities...who says I am uneducated? That's an insult, "he said. He explained that he was appointed at the SABC in 1995 and the position he was appointed in did not require a matric. He explained that it was not his fault that an impression was created that he obtained the qualification but the fault of an SABC employee Miss Swanepoel who entered his details incorrectly. He said after he was appointed, he was sent on a broadcasting course in Gauteng, while he was based in Bloemfontein at the time. “I went and attended this course here in Gauteng. Everyone knows I don’t have a matric. So, I attend this course and the reason for me to attend this course according to management was I should get more experience,” he said. The inquiry continues. IOL and African News Agency/ANA