Durban - South Africans will now be able to keep up to date with the latest developments from the presidency. On Monday, President Cyril Ramaphosa announced that he will be releasing a weekly newsletter. "Each week, I will discuss some of the issues that interest and concern South Africans, and talk about the work we are doing in government to tackle these issues. I hope you will find it useful," Ramaphosa announced via his Instagram account.     Welcome to my first weekly newsletter. Each week, I will discuss some of the issues that interest and concern South Africans, and talk about the work we are doing in government to tackle these issues. I hope you will find it useful. Link in bio A post shared by  Cyril Ramaphosa 🇿🇦 (@cyrilramaphosa) on Sep 29, 2019 at 11:49pm PDT  "Almost everyone I meet in the country, whether residents of Lusikisiki or business leaders in Johannesburg, is deeply concerned about the state of the economy and the stubbornly high rates of unemployment. After a decade of low growth and deepening poverty, people are looking for signs of progress in tackling the many challenges confronting our country. These concerns are real. "This year, the economy will record growth that is lower than expected (and much lower than what we need). Government finances are stretched about as far as they can go, and several industries are looking at retrenching workers," Ramaphosa said via the first official post on Monday. He said much of the confidence that the country had 20 months ago has dissipated as the reality of the problems became clearer. "This confidence was born out of the hope that we would quickly undo the damage that was done over a number of years. Implementing change does take time. The important issue is that we should move in a determined way to effect change while remaining irrevocably committed to rooting out state capture, corruption and malfeasance. "We collectively have a common task: to rebuild the confidence of our people, this time based not merely on hope and expectation of change, but on concrete things that make a difference in the economy, real actions that ‘move the needle’. I believe this is eminently possible. "Despite the difficulties, South Africans from all walks of life are still moved by the spirit of Thuma Mina to become involved in fixing our country. They want to change the narrative of doubt to a narrative of opportunity not through clever spin, but through action. South Africans are ready to rise to the challenge. Residents will be able to subscribe to the newsletter via https://us20.campaign-archive.com The Mercury