Johannesburg - Despite a judge contending that baby killer Timothy* “had no regard for life”, his family have rallied around the convicted murderer as “a good man and father”. On Wednesday at the South Gauteng High Court, Timothy was sentenced to life imprisonment and an additional 10 years for the grotesque abuse and brutal June 2016 death of three-year-old Baby Daniel, who died after being submerged in a bathtub with boiling water, resulting in him suffering shocking burns to 60% of his tiny body. Timothy’s former lover, Maryke*, who was Baby Daniel’s biological mother, was sentenced to an effective 20 years on two counts of deliberate child neglect, which Judge Collin Matshitse said had caused the death of her son. The judge said both convicts had no regard for life and carried out vicious attacks on the little boy. Daniel, according to a pathology report, suffered a spine-chilling death, including 15 separate blunt-force injuries, ranging from moderate to large force, many of which occurred 24 to 48 hours before he was scalded to death. “A 60% surface-area burn would result in significant loss of fluids. The pain experienced in sustaining such wounds would be catastrophic,” said the report. But Timothy’s younger brother and sister, who will both remain anonymous, said painting their brother as an evil man was pure lies as he loved Baby Daniel, including Maryke’s other son, as if they were his own. “The children called him ‘Daddy’ out of their own volition. We are devastated. We have considered appealing and we will appeal. It will be financially challenging but, as a family, we will pull through together,” Timothy’s younger sister said. Judge Matshitse said in his sentencing that he had to weigh three options: the personal circumstances of the accused, the nature of the crime and the interest of the public. “When this court imposes sentence on you, you will know that it is the will of the people,” Judge Matshitse said. Timothy has two children with Maryke, aged three and two, both of whom are the subject of a Children’s Court custody hearing and have been placed at a centre pending the outcome of the case. Both Maryke and Timothy spent their first night in jail as sentenced prisoners. * Not their real names The Star