Johannesburg - A damning report has revealed that schools are going without adequate security because they are not given money to rope in guards and install surveillance systems. The Private Security Industry Regulatory Authority (PSiRA) conducted its research against the backdrop of an increased number of reported crimes and acts of violence in schools around the country. PSiRA’s study, authored by Londiwe Caluza, points fingers squarely at the lack of funding for security in schools. Caluza conducted her research in Gauteng, where she interviewed a number of school principals and officials from the safety and security unit of the Gauteng Department of Education. The province has experienced some of the country's shocking school criminal incidents and violence. Menzi Primary School in Tsakane, Ekurhuleni, was robbed of electronic equipment and ICT equipment just a week after its official opening. Two robbery suspects died during a bloody shootout at Edenvale High School in February. The pair were part of a group that entered the school with an intention to rob it of money. Schools in various parts of the country have seen violent incidents over the past year. In February, a 13-year-old North West learner died after he was stabbed with a pair of scissors, allegedly by his 14-year-old classmate. A 17-year-old Grade 10 learner who stabbed to death Gadimang Mokolobate, 24, a maths teacher in Zeerust, North West, was sentenced to 10 years in prison last month. “From the data collected, it was identified that schools were struggling to provide security that is adequate due to costs,” the PSiRA report said. “The department does not offer any monetary assistance to help schools pay the security company for their services. “Schools are left to fend for themselves in order to ensure that their schools are safe for both children and educators,” it added. The result of lack of funding for security was that schools which had guards grossly underpaid them. Researchers met a guard who worked 26 days a month, from 6am to 6pm, but was paid just R1 200 a month. The inadequate funding also left many of the schools without CCTV cameras. “These security measures could not be put in place in all the premises in some schools because they are too expensive,” said the report, adding that this equipment would be handy for schools. Allan Thompson, deputy president of the National Teachers Union, congratulated PSiRA for highlighting school security breaches. “Classrooms are in turmoil. Teachers and learners are being brutally killed. Schools are becoming danger zones,” he said. The Star