Johannesburg - The Oprah Winfrey Leadership Academy for Girls (Owlag) has taken steps to prepare their learners for the fourth industrial revolution through teaching and learning methods. The pupils of Owlag in Meyerton, Vereeniging, receive “hands-on” learning through various methods such as updated computer laboratories and computer hardware and software that can be used in a wide range of fields. According to the school, learners are exposed to technologies and concepts that challenge them to develop critical thinking skills and adaptability that will assist outside confines of the classroom. “We are preparing students for jobs that probably do not exist right now. A few years ago, Bitcoin was unheard of, YouTube stardom was never thought about and a robot with thoughts and emotions never existed,” said computer applications technology teacher Yougeshini Periasawmy. “This is how we prepare students for an ever-changing world, through exposure and ‘forever-learning’ concepts.” The school has also gone beyond focusing only on the pupils. Teachers are receiving training and personal or professional development opportunities. “We’re committed to ensuring that our teachers are exposed to the latest updates in technology and advancements in teaching methods that can be used to prepare our students for the careers that they will start in a few years’ time,” said executive director Gugu Ndebele. “I believe that empowering our teachers is absolutely vital in skilling our students as best as possible.” In February, President Cyril Ramaphosa’s announced the plan to provide school children across the country with digital workbooks and textbooks on a tablet device, over the next six years. Minister of Basic Education Angie Motshekga announced the introduction of coding and robotics as subjects in schools. Periasawmy said government is seeing that preparation for the fourth industrial revolution is vital. “The use of technology in the classroom should be second nature to students. Regardless of the field of job that a student is preparing for, they will be required to use some form of technology,” he said. The Star