It is nothing less than momentous given that, two days earlier, she had no hands at all. Last week, she became one of a tiny group of people in the UK to benefit from a pioneering double hand transplant. It had been five long years since the catastrophic day Hutton lost her hands and feet to sepsis - five years of prosthetics and pain, during which she has had to overhaul her entire life. In truth, she is lucky to be alive at all. But today, the results of the painstaking, 12-hour procedure at Leeds General Infirmary, which involved four teams of highly specialised surgeons, are already astonishing the doctors - and, indeed, their patient. Hutton can barely stop staring at her new hands with wonder. “It's all been worth it," she says, tearfully. “Even now, with all the pains, aches, the medication, the lack of sleep. I can't stop looking at them. They're absolutely fantastic. “But the one thing I want to do more than anything now is hold my son's hand properly. “Since he was four, he's had to hold what's been left of my hands. He's 10 now and he might not be very keen on the idea of holding his mum's hand, but I'm going to do it anyway because I haven't been able to do it for so long.” It is undoubtedly an incredible feat for medical science that such complex surgery is possible. It has not been an easy journey. Former graphic designer Hutton has not only had to come to terms with life as a quadruple amputee, but endured an additional personal tragedy when her marriage fell apart along the way. Her husband left, unable it seems to cope with her disabilities and, when asked if he had been in touch to congratulate her on the operation, she simply shook her head. Still, her sense of determination has not diminished. She has raised her young son as a single parent and channelled her energies into launching her own charity for amputees, Finding Your Feet. In an extraordinary display of human endeavour, she also climbed Mount Kilimanjaro last October using prosthetic limbs. Today, however, her thoughts are with the family of the 51-year-old donor whose hands have given her life fresh hope. Remarkably, thanks to the skills of the surgeons and the team that matches donors to patients, they already feel like her own. Indeed, Corinne is lucky to be alive at all. In June 2013, the 48-year-old, from Lochwinnoch, near Glasgow, had been in otherwise good health when she developed a persistent, hacking cough, and was prescribed antibiotics. But after feeling increasingly unwell, she went to A&E at the Royal Alexandra Hospital in Paisley, where she collapsed and spent three weeks in a medically induced coma, suffering from pneumonia. At one point, her chances of survival were just 5%. Her hands and feet turned black and, when she came round, she was devastated to learn that she would became a quadruple amputee. But from the beginning, there was hope that her hands, at least, could be replaced. Two leading plastic surgeons, Professor Simon Kay at Leeds, who performed the UK’s first single hand transplant in 2012, and Professor Andrew Hart in Glasgow, who amputated her hands and feet, agreed she was an ideal candidate for transplant surgery. She had to undergo extensive screening to assess her psychological and physical suitability to face the demanding surgery. Only a small number of amputees are accepted as potential recipients - and it was Hutton's positive attitude that flagged her as ideal. Those waiting for a limb, however, face even greater problems than those requiring an organ. Donor and patient must be the same gender and ethnicity, with the same skin type and tone. The hands must also be the same size as the ones that have been lost. Corinne said: “I'm a positive person, but I had started to think it would never happen to me. In the beginning, my heart raced when I got the phone call, thinking it was all about to happen, but then there were 12 false alarms that I knew about and another eight that the hospital didn't tell me about. I saw other people getting the surgery and, while I was happy for them, I was starting to think after five years that maybe I should just be happy with my lot,” she said. It was during this long, frustrating period that her marriage also ended. But her deep anger at the collapse of her relationship and feelings of rejection as she struggled to rebuild her life and her confidence, clearly still hurt. The call that would change her life came on the evening of Monday January 7. The team at Leeds told her they believed they had a possible match and advised her to stand by. “At first, I tried not to believe it," she said, "but this time they seemed pretty certain. I was at home with Rory and I said, 'Mummy might be getting new hands after all.'" Hutton made the journey alone, leaving Rory with her brother. By the time she arrived at Leeds General Infirmary at 3.30am, a team of 12 surgeons, led by Prof Kay, was beginning to assemble, including one from Lyon, in France. The surgery began at 1pm on January 8 and finished in the early hours of the following morning. When Hutton awoke, her stumps had gone, replaced by a pair of new hands and wrists. “It was absolutely phenomenal. Looking at them for the first time, I was full of wonder. They've done a wonderful job and the fact I have the donor's wrists too means I'm already able to move my fingers. “As two teams, one for each hand, opened up my wrists, two retrieval teams were working on the donor. Speed is of the essence as, unlike organs which can be kept for some hours, hands begin to die the minute circulation stops." There is still the chance, despite taking immunosuppressant drugs for the rest of her life, that her body could reject the new appendages. If that happens, they may have to be removed. Mail On Sunday