Andrew Brink’s cremated remains are still kept at a mortuary more than five months after he died on August 9 because his family are struggling to get money to bury him. The growing debt to keep his body at a private funeral house currently stands at R12500. The family are also fighting with the parlour to stop applying interest to their debt. Brink, from Boksburg, took out accidental-death and disability policy cover with Platinum Life, underwritten by Guardrisk Life, in 2014. Documents seen by The Star show that as at May 11 last year, the 54-year-old man paid a premium of R1241.32 a month. The accidental-death cover was for R1.14million. His eldest child, Priscilla Brink, 20, said she had been fighting the insurer for the payout so that her father could be given a dignified burial. “They (Platinum Life) have not given us time to grieve properly. My dad passed away in August and I am still fighting for the money so that I can get his ashes and prepare the funeral for some kind of closure. Only then can we mourn. In a letter to the family on November 7, the insurer said it regretted that the family would not receive a payout. “The documents you have submitted indicate that the late Mr Brink underwent a leg amputation on August 7, 2018, and succumbed to organ failure on August 9. Unfortunately, there is no evidence of an accident having caused the amputation or death (and) your claim does not meet the terms and conditions of the cover” the letter stated in part. The company’s general manager, Raymond McIntyre, who also signed off the letter, was unavailable for comment. However, a consultant to whom The Star spoke said the matter was under investigation and they would be able to give a full response on Friday. Priscilla said her father, who was diabetic, had stepped on a piece of glass while executing his duties at an accident scene in April last year. She added the family also believed that staff at Edenvale Hospital were negligent which, led to their father’s foot being amputated. “At the time, he didn’t notice that he had stood on the glass, and it was my brother who noticed. He first had a small wound to his right foot and went for a check-up. “A specialist said it was nothing to worry about. He was misdiagnosed and they failed to treat an underlying infection,” Priscilla added. “On August 7, doctors amputated again, and this time it was above the knee. Two days later, he had a seizure, and when the medical team got to him, he was already blue and did not have a pulse,” she said. A pathology report claimed that Brink had died of organ failure, while the death certificate stated that he had died of unnatural causes. Priscilla said her father would be disappointed to see how much the family were struggling because he had reassured them that they would be well taken care of when he died. “My siblings, aged 14, 17 and 18, are living with me. The undertaker is keeping his ashes until we pay,” said Priscilla. Jenny Jenkins, a complaints assessor at the office of the Life Assurance Ombudsman, said they had received an email from Priscilla a week ago. “We need the insurer’s input as well (to make) an informed decision. We are allowing the insurer a period to resolve the matter with her first. If it is not resolved, then we will intervene,” Jenkins said. The Star