Billions of rand which Johannesburg loses each year is largely due to the brazen illegal connections to services by big property developers in upmarket suburbs. This as the city has issued a stern warning to all property developers that the continued theft of services in Joburg could lead to jail time regardless of how massive the investment has been. Lufuno Mashau, director of its lawlessness prevention unit Buya Mthetho, asserted on Wednesday that the city, according to the auditor-general’s report, lost about R1.2billion because of illegal connections, where major developers contribute “millions of rand” from this lawlessness. Mashau was speaking outside a major project in Fourways, which was nearing completion with occupation of homes expected to start in March, where an alleged illegal water connection was removed by Joburg Water. The building project was handled by Summercon Property Developers, where there were dozens of upmarket flats for sale - the cheapest of which, according to an advertising board, was R909000. Two other massive properties were cut-off from the water supply, including a luxurious Fourways residential complex which has allegedly been operating since 2015 illegally. “So, all the connections for water are illegal; they have connected directly to our water main, meaning whatever water that has been used here is unaccounted for. “The city has not been billing for that water. “Also, we will find a way to - in terms of our by-laws - estimate how much water they have used to construct this building here. “We expect that the costs will run into millions of rand for us to recover what we have lost,” Mashau added. “In terms of the by-laws, it does say that we can institute criminal charges should we find that the connection is completely illegal. “We will inform the police and take it from there,” he said. At the Summercon site, a representative of the developers who didn’t reveal his name, was shocked when informed that the water was cut-off, saying he was being sent bills from the city. “If you send us the correct reading (of the meter) then we will pay. Look, I’m not fighting. We bought this property (and) we had a meter linked to our account,” the representative said. Compliance notices were issued to all developers as well as fines, which Mashau said would amount to R13000 per flat. @khayakoko88