Musician Oliver Mtukudzi, who died at the age of 66, was a great cultural ambassador for Zimbabwe. Known to his fans as “Tuku”, he was a cultural icon for the southern African country. His aura and presence had a global resonance with fans around the world, yet the man remained humble and magnanimous. I once boasted to some international colleagues that he was Zimbabwe’s gift to the world. But on closer scrutiny, he was the perfect gift for Zimbabweans. Mtukudzi died in Harare after a long battle with diabetes, ironically on the exact same day as his friend, musician Hugh Masekela, who passed away on January 23, 2018. Tuku released his debut single in 1975. As a solo artist, Mtukudzi had his first successes shortly after Zimbabwe declared its independence in 1980. His debut solo album was named after the continent, Africa. The prolific Mtukudzi released his 67th album in 2018 - Hanya’Ga (Concern), saying it was “meant to share a message of introspecting and I’m hoping people learn a thing or two from it”. Celebrated as “the man with the talking guitar”, Mtukudzi learnt by experimenting: “I looked for a sound the guitar couldn’t make in a guitar - that is how I learned to play the guitar. Professional guitarists at the time used to laugh at me. I used to look for a mbira (music instrument) on the guitar strings. I’ve always been experimental. But it was a blessing in disguise because I went on to pioneer a sound that was later labelled Tuku music.” But Mtukudzi was more than just a popular singer. In his song Todii (What shall we do?), Mtukudzi reflects on the challenge faced by communities as a result of the scourge of HIV/Aids. Conversely, in Ndagarwa nhaka (Inheriting) he brought attention to a Shona cultural practice of a widow being married off to the late husband’s elder or young brother. In this song, Mtukudzi using the voice of the widow, appears to praise the status quo as enabling the widow to get solace and protection given her loss. A stark contrast, though, is found in the movie Neria. Mtukudzi crafted the soundtrack detailing the tribulations of a widow trying to survive past patriarchy in all its forms. * Willie Chinyamurindi is an Associate Professor, University of Fort Hare