Violence has once reared it's ugly head in schools only three weeks since schools re-opened. Two incidents that that happened Gauteng schools were caught on camera and later circulated on social media this week. They also led to the suspension of five pupils. In the first incident, a heavily built boy can be seen striking another boy, who is quite skinny, repeatedly with fists until he falls. The fight happens in the courtyard at Hoerskool President in Ridgeway, south of Joburg.     Gauteng MEC for Education, Panyaza Lesufi, rushed to Hoerskool President after this video of pupils fighting surfaced. The fight happened on January 22 and four pupils were suspended the same day pic.twitter.com/T9KCLj9xwM When the skinny boy falls, some watching the fight start applauding. The burly boy then walks away, seemingly very happy with himself and his friends seem to be congratulating him. One of the burly boy's friends says something to the skinny boy as he lies on the ground, taunting him. As the burly boy and his friends walk away, other pupils go to the skinny boy and help him up.     A pupil from General Smuts High School in the Vaal has been suspended after he was caught on camera assaulting a classmate while a female teacher looked on fearfully and helplessly. pic.twitter.com/lf0tFLTQsG The second incident happened at the General Smuts High School in the Vaal. Unlike the first incident which happens in the courtyard, this one happens in the classroom where there is a female teacher in class who seems to be bewildered and doesn't know what to do. In the video, a taller pupil wearing the school blazer and a cap can be seen raining fists on his classmate. All that the victim does is stay bent, as blows rain on his back. At some point the one in the cap then holds his victim, pushes against the desk and continues punching him. He then kicks him then punches him again. Throughout the fight, the one being beaten up does not fight back, instead, he keeps his head bowed and there's not much reaction from him. However, that seems to only encourage the other pupil to keep beating him more as evidenced by the manner in which he violently rains blows on him. Other pupils in the class are screaming, saying it's enough but no one dares to separate the two. A girl can also be heard screaming, asking the boy to stop beating the classmate. Relief for the victim comes in the form of a man in white shirt, who storms into the classroom and gets between the two. Gauteng MEC for Education, Panyaza Lesufi rushed to Hoerskool President on Friday after seeing the video. He said the incident happened on January 22 and that the school suspended four pupils the same day. He said the reason four pupils were suspended though only two can be seen on the video was because some of the things that happened were not captured on the video. Asked why he only went to the school on Friday though the incident happened on the 22nd, Lesufi said it was because they only saw the the video on Thursday. He also confirmed that the  General Smuts High School pupils seen assaulting his classmate had been suspended and investigations were underway into the matter. "The female teacher in that incident was also intimidated hence she called a male teacher to intervene," Lesufi said.   