The venue is closing its doors after being home to many of the country’s emerging talents and legends. The venue brought artists and fans closer together in a space that was intimate and always special. The warning signs began when The Orbit started a social media campaign called #SaveTheOrbit at the end of last year. “Music to us is language of the spirit. The Orbit was born out of a yearning, a thirst for authentic, home-brewed, live music for the living,” the club said at the time. The target was R1-million, but the ThundaFund managed to raise only just over R30 000. Since 2014, the venue has hosted performers such as the late Bra Hugh Masekela and the talented Lunga Mavuso, among many other local and international acts. On Thursday, the club announced the news of its closure. “We have unfortunately not been able to overcome the financial constraints that we have found with running a live music venue like The Orbit. We had hoped to attract more investment, but this has proved difficult with the type of business that we are and the current financial realities in the country.” “I would like to thank all the musicians who have performed on our stage for baring their souls to us all and for giving us world-class performances five to six days a week for almost five years. We are truly blessed with extremely good talent in the country and continent, and hope that musicians will find a space to continue their much-needed work,” said director Kevin Naidoo. Supporters took to social media to express their concern and sadness about the closing of the iconic venue. Jazz enthusiast Potso Mogotsi tweeted: “As much as the fans of The Orbit are broken, my thoughts are with Nduduzo Makhathini, Bokani Dyer & many other local cats & presenters who had graced that joint. “I’m concerned about our local talent, in particular the jazz genre This was their platform, in my humble opinion.” Designer Thula Sindi tweeted: “The city should look into commercialising certain buildings and subsidising rentals for unique businesses like The Orbit, which add tourism attraction and creative capital to the city.” Kasi Maestro related some of his favourite memories at the venue: “The Orbit is where I’ve been on 1st dates, had birthday dinners, cried during live performances. Fell in love with Nomfundo Xaluva music. Through the years I’ve gone through many career changes as a young lawyer. I Wish there was something we could do to save it!” Naidoo said the venue hoped to continue some of its external projects, including those with the Nelson Mandela Foundation and with municipalities across the country, "so that we may continue our mission of providing soul-enriching music to people everywhere.”