This follows yesterday’s release of the annual Oxfam Inequality Report ahead of this week’s jamboree for the moneyed at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. Oxfam SA released the report at its country headquarters in Joburg. According to Basani Baloyi, Oxfam SA’s senior fellow for research and policy, disparities in South Africa are also dire, where the top 10% earners own 55% of all household income, 69% of total household asset value and 71% of household net income in the country. In stark contrast Baloyi added that the country’s bottom 50% of earners accounted for a paltry 8% of income, 5% of asset value and 4% of net wealth. “We (Oxfam) would like to see a wealth tax, the super rich must be taxed.” Baloyi asserted. Siphokazi Mthathi, Oxfam SA’s executive director, gave a graphic description of the levels of poverty in the country leading up to this year’s elections. “This election cycle in South Africa is possibly the worst, as the population living in poverty has increased by 11% from 27.3million (people) in 2011 to 30.4 million in 2015,” Mthathi said. The report added that the number of persons in South Africa living in what was extreme poverty - people living below the 2015 Food Poverty Line of R441 a person a month - increased from 11 million in 2011 to 13.8 million in 2015, which represented 25.2% of the country’s population. In variance to the poverty, Forbes’ 2018 list of rich South Africans, in order, is: Nicky Oppenheimer at R105.6bn; Johann Rupert at R87.8bn; Ivan Glasenberg at R75.4bn; Koos Bekker at R34.3bn; and Allan Gray at R27.4bn. However, Leon Louw, executive director at the Free Market Foundation, said that Oxfam was a scam, which knew nothing about taxation and fiscal policy and should “shut its trap”. “What is it; is it after tax income, pre-tax income, assets, dividend-yielding assets, or personal assets like a home, a car or jewellery? “The only intelligent meaning for inequality is quality of life. "And, in terms of quality of life, there has been a fantastic decline in inequality,” Louw contended. Trade union federation Cosatu questioned the R1.5bn taxpayer-funded subsidy of the middle class-used Gautrain calling it “transport for the elite”.