The high court in Joburg heard on Tuesday that Joseph Rasempane Mahloma, 31, broke out of prison while he and accomplices were on trial for rape and robbery. Mahloma revealed this information to Xolile Bhudaza, a probation officer who prepared a pre-sentence report. Bhudaza interviewed Mahloma and his relatives to look into whether or not there were mitigating factors. Police never traced Mahloma after he escaped, and Mahloma had no idea how the case was brought to finality. “He did not know about the status of that case,” Bhudaza wrote in the report, read out in court by the prosecution team. The Star has gathered that three men were jailed for gang rape and robbery that Mahloma was allegedly part of in Thabazimbi, Limpopo. Their trial had begun at the time that Mahloma escaped and kept a low profile in Tembisa. He had been living with a girlfriend and apparently communicating with relatives when he was nabbed late in 2014 for crimes he had committed in Tembisa. He was found guilty in July last year of a whopping 91 counts, which included 20 rapes, two of sexual assault and several of kidnapping and robbery with aggravating circumstances. Mahloma broke into his victims’ homes between January and August 2014, where he raped and robbed the females he found sleeping. Police linked him to the rapes by DNA. He raped his victims without using protection. The court heard during the trial that Mahloma forced two of his victims to wash with sewage drain water, ostensibly in a bid to kill evidence. The court also heard that Mahloma was a father of four children, who he was close to. Three of his children are with their mother in Limpopo. He was in a relationship with the mother of three and the one he lived with in Tembisa. “Both his girlfriends know about each other,” wrote Bhudaza. Identifying himself as a Christian, even before his arrest, Mahloma told Bhudaza he was focusing on religious studies in prison. However, Bhudaza could not find factors that would result in a lenient sentence for Mahloma. “He poses a danger to society, not only to women,” she said. His victims also wanted him removed from society for a long time. The two victim impact reports read to court by prosecutors Leisha Surenda and Debbie Zinn painted a picture of women scarred for life. In a report, prepared by a probation officer, a 29-year-old woman, who was raped by Mahloma, doubted she would recover. A 40-year-old, also raped by Mahloma, struggled to come to terms with her ordeal, despite six sessions of counselling. “The victim experiences sleeping problems and has flashbacks. The victim has not healed from the incident,” said the report. The pre-sentencing proceedings were expected to continue on Wednesday. @BonganiNkosi87