The Laerskool Schweizer-Reneke teacher who was ordered to return to her post after her "unlawful" suspension was lifted by court did not report for duty on Friday. Judge Christina Prinsloo ruled on Thursday at the Johannesburg Labour Cour that Elana Barkuizen should have not been suspended to start with. Declaring her suspension unlawful and unnecessary, Prinsloo ruled that Barkhuizen return to work on January 25 and that her return must be safe. The Star, however, got wind of the fact that Barkhuizen did not report for duty as expected. Solidarity's Connie Mulder confirmed that and said Barkhuizen's return to the school will be coordinated with the School Governing Body. Mulder said it was decided to not disclose the date of her return in part due to safety concerns for the school and learners, who have already had school disrupted several times this year. "The judge ordered that she may return to work on the 25th, consequently after the judgement we made contact with the SGB and had discussions surrounding the practicalities of her return. "One of the reasons she isn’t at school already is simply geographical – she’s been in Gauteng the past two weeks and Schweizer-Reneke is quite some distance away. "It was decided that the best course of action was for her to take leave in order to get all her administration in order and make sure that she is ready to resume classes the moment she returns. As you can imagine her planning for the year has been thrown into disarray since the incident," Mulder said. Barkhuizen was suspended after she took and sent out a picture showing a group of white learners sitting together while their four black classmates sit at a small table near the door. She sent the picture to a WhatsApp group to show parents that things were going well on the first day of schooling. The picture, however, found itself on social media and left many shocked and disgusted that the pupils had seemingly been racially segregated. She was immediately suspended but Solidarity  initiated the legal action on behalf  because they believed that her suspension was unlawful and should be lifted. It's not yet known who had separated the children according to race yet. The North West Department of Education did investigations into the matter but had to postpone the release of the report indefinitely. Departmental spokesperson Freddy Sepen said just before the report could be released, MEC Sello Lehari decided to consult with the legal team to ensure that mistakes had not been made hence the report was postponed indefinitely. 