Harare - Zimbabwean music legend Oliver Mtukudzi has been hailed as a unifier who cut across the political divide and tribal sentiment. Thousands of people made the 150km journey from Harare to Mtukudzi's rural homestead of Dande to give the star a befitting send-off. Mtukudzi, 66, who died from diabetes complications on Wednesday, was buried at his home, despite the government declaring him a national hero. Fans, politicians and musicians trek- ked to Dande. Zanu-PF bigwigs joined their fierce rivals, the MDC top brass, led by their leader Nelson Chamisa. Former deputy prime minister Thokozani Khuphe was also in attendance. Conspicuous by their absence were President Emmerson Mnangagwa and his deputy, Constantino Chiwenga. Mtukudzi’s manager of 22 years, Debbie Metcalfe, now based in Durban, described him as a humble professional. “I am not surprised to see so many people here. Tuku was an absolute genius and there is not a single day when he would be late or looked down on people, even though he was such a big star.” Metcalfe's sentiments were echoed by South African jazz musician Steve Dyer, who also made the trip to Zimbabwe. “I knew Tuku for 35 years and we worked on some amazing projects together. I am glad he never wasted a single day of his life. That's why we can all carry on enjoying his 67 albums.” Former Wits footballer Alois Bunjira hailed Mtukudzi as an “irreplaceable hero”. “I grew up listening to his music. In fact his music can be found in just about every home." The funeral, although held out of the capital, was a befitting farewell for arguably the country’s biggest cultural ambassador. Flags were flown at half mast all day and Mtukudzi received a six-gun salute as his coffin was lowered into the grave, which was dug under a tree in the middle of his immaculate homestead. Looking at the majestic and well- kept rural home, it explained his dying wish to be buried in that beauty rather than the national shrine in Harare. Temba Mliswa, member of parliament for Norton, the area in the town in which the hitmaker lived with his wife Daisy, said Mtukudzi's legacy would be kept alive. “The Pakare Paye Arts Centre that Dr Mtukudzi built will remain a place for young people to fulfil their potential. I am going to make sure the place is exempted from rates. That place must not die with Tuku,” Mliswa said.