Most of the illegal connections are by developers whose modus operandi is to illegally connect to the Joburg Water and City Power systems while constructing, and then to apply for meters once the building is complete. However, this will soon come to an end. On Tuesday, Joburg mayor Herman Mashaba vowed that around 2000 properties, owned and managed by people who can afford to pay, would be traced and made to pay for arrears. Furthermore, the tenants or buyers occupying the buildings would face cut-offs if the connections were illegal. The city visited three sites - a brand new multimillion-rand office building in Ormonde, a shopping centre development in Wilgeheuwel, and a housing estate in Little Falls, both in Roodepoort - all of which have illegal water, electricity and sewer connections. “We have started an audit of every single stand in Joburg. In addition to this, all building plans submitted will be thoroughly checked for water and electricity applications. “By stealing water and power from the city, these developers are depriving poor communities of infrastructure. This is criminal," Mashaba said. Developer Mashish Idnani in Ormonde was at first shocked to find a team of Joburg metro police, trucks from Joburg Water, Group Finance and City Power descend on the building which had water and power meters not belonging to the city. It is estimated that water consumption on that site alone during construction to date is a R1.6million loss to the city. Idnani immediately denied installing the illegal connection, saying he knew nothing about it and that the city officials had probably done it without his knowledge. After making calls, he then told the mayor he paid R520000 to City Power and Joburg Water officials to do the installations. The next stop was a shopping mall under construction at Wilgeheuwel. The building is half complete, but has illegal water and sewer connections at various points. A camp where construction workers live has full electricity and water is flowing freely. Last week, a similar operation took place in Fourways where it was found that the city had lost R9m alone in illegal connections. @annacox