Nearly 30 NGOs responsible for the deaths of 144 patients during the implementation of the Life Esidimeni project will be investigated in a move that could result in criminal prosecution. President Cyril Ramaphosa announced on Thursday that he had signed a proclamation authorising the Special Investigating Unit (SIU) to investigate 28 entities “in whose care (psychiatric) patients were entrusted”. A confirmed 144 patients died, many from starvation, dehydration, negligence and lack of medical supplies. At least 21 others were reportedly still unaccounted for. Ramaphosa said the SIU would investigate several matters in the affairs of the Gauteng Department of Health’s Life Esidimeni contract which was cancelled abruptly by former Health MEC Qedani Mahlangu. Mahlangu, despite being warned that the project would be disastrous, went ahead with it to “cut costs”. “With regard to Life Healthcare Esidimeni, the SIU will probe allegations of irregularities in procurement by the Gauteng Department of Health, its employees or by contractors on behalf of the department. The authorisation also enables the SIU to investigate irregularities by officials or employees of Life Esidimeni,” said Ramaphosa’s spokesperson Khusela Diko. Health Ombudsman Malegapuru Makgoba’s report into the deaths found nearly 2000 victims were moved to “unreliable and unlicensed” NGOs across the province. Susan de Villiers, whose brother Jaco Stols died, revealed at arbitration hearings presided over by former Deputy Chief Justice Dikgang Moseneke her brother was so hungry he “nearly ate a serviette”. The Life Esidimeni Families’ Committee, however, said it wanted framework and time lines for the SIU probe. “We want closure. When we got to the arbitration hearings and finished with those, we thought closure was coming. We realised in mid-2017 that this was going to take long to end. “Some of us haven’t had a chance to grieve. We are trying to grieve and then something else comes up. It is very clear that this one is not just going to go away but as long as we are moving in the right direction, we welcome it,” said spokesperson Christine Nxumalo. Her sister, Virginia Machpelah who had Alzheimer’s, died after spending two months at Precious Angels in Pretoria. “It must not be used to garner votes. The SIU must conduct its investigations honestly and sincerely,” Nxumalo said. In August last year, Nxumalo and her team penned a letter to then acting head of national director of public prosecutions Silas Ramaite calling upon him to criminally charge Mahlangu, former Gauteng health HOD Barney Selebano and director of mental health Makgabo Manamela. No charges have been preferred yet against them and owners of the centres - most of them located in the west of Pretoria. Precious Angels, Rebafenyi, Anchor and Bophelong Suurman were “found to be new and in an early phase of establishment without any procedures and systems in place to ensure quality of care for mentally ill patients”. Makgoba’s report also revealed that Anchor, Precious Angels, Rebafenyi, Ubuhle Benkosi and Bophelong Suurman had existed for only a month prior to being appointed as service providers by the department and did not have a track record and capacity to take care of pyschiatric patients. “Contributory factors to deaths at Precious Angels could be hunger and cold. The rooms were cold and there was no food to feed them the department took three months to pay them. “So they were struggling to buy food,” the report read. Nxumalo said the families hoped the probe was not a political ploy. “For us, the most important thing would be the timeline, so that we can hold them accountable when nothing comes forth,” Nxumalo said. She said families who were part of the arbitration processes had received compensation and that government was currently dealing with claims from families who came forth afterwards. Moseneke awarded R1.2million in compensation to the families of those who died. The ANC, which recently came under attack for re-electing Mahlangu to its provincial leadership body, has described Ramaphosa’s move as a measure “to contribute to the mending of deep wounds and scars carried by the families and relatives of the deceased”. ANC Gauteng spokesperson Tasneem Motara said her party was reiterating the calls made that all state institutions, including law enforcement agencies as well as regulatory institutions that have been tasked with further investigations into the circumstances that led to the Life Esidimeni tragedy act swiftly to complete their investigations and take appropriate action against those found to have transgressed the law. “We call on all affected and interested parties to give their full cooperation to the SIU probe into the matter. We remain hopeful that this process aimed at ensuring that redress and justice are meted out, will eventually contribute to the mending of deep wounds and scars carried by the families and relatives of the deceased,” Motata said. DA health spokesperson Jack Bloom has cautiously welcomed the investigation saying: “I am concerned, however, that we could have endless investigation instead of prosecutions that convict guilty people.” “We need to know how the SIU is coordinating with the police investigation which is slow and under-resourced. Proper expertise and resources are needed to ensure a speedy conclusion to investigations so that all those implicated in the Esidimeni tragedy are punished,” Bloom said.