His relatives were expected to file court papers on Tuesday  against the politician's wife, Nonqaba, to challenge his burial at the Westpark cemetery last Thursday, saying it was against his dying wishes. The family, armed with a signed will, told The Star on condition of anonymity that they hoped the court would rule in their favour. “We will then exhume the body for reburial in the Free State, where he wanted to be buried,” a relative said. The former Gauteng Transport MEC died in his home in Kibler Park, south of Joburg, on December 24. His family said despite approaching his wife, Nonqaba, with a 2013 will on January 2, she went ahead with the funeral. According to the will in our possession, Mosunkutu feared that Nonqaba, who the family claimed he divorced in 2015, would hijack his funeral. “It must be remembered that I will be buried according to my wishes. There will be no instant burial. My wife must be prevented at all costs from hijacking my funeral. “She has no right to mourn or bury me. To allow this will be the worst insult to me and the Mosunkutu family,” the last paragraph on the testament reads. The couple have four children together and Nonqaba had another child before marrying Mosunkutu in 1977. She denied the divorce but admitted that in 2013, when she found her husband's will, which he signed in 2011, she was angry and hurt. “I told him that the will meant he had divorced me. He apologised to me and our children four times. I am a forgiving person. “I do not know the Mosunkutus who came to my house with the 2013 will. It was forged and people will go to jail. All that they are alleging is not true. They are hurting my children with all these lies. We are mourning my husband and my children's father and have no time for this,” Nonqaba said. She said she would not allow the exhumation. “They want to make my husband a sacrifice and that is not going to happen. If it were not for the special provincial official funeral that he received, I would have buried him at a memorial site in Nasrec which we bought for ourselves. That is what we had agreed on,” Nonqaba said. The will reads in part: “I shall be buried in the Free state, (the) land of my forefathers, where my paternal grandmother, my uncles and aunts are buried. I will be buried by the branch of the United Reformed Church (Pimville) and no other The burial rites of the Bakwena Clan shall prevail.” Mosunkutu then details how he was allegedly abused, used and had his work phones stolen by Nonqaba. “In 2009, she became extremely abusive, stealing my work phones (five of them) She thrived on sowing divisions particularly in my family. I finally took a decision to cut her out of any piece of my wealth, no matter how small it may be,” reads the will in part. Nonqaba denied this, saying she and her husband had remained loving and respectful towards each other until the day he died. The will further states that Mosunkutu's pension fund should be distributed according to his stipulations to three of their children, Queen, Itumeleng and Tsitso, his two siblings Kedibone Moahi and Isaac Mosunkutu, the family domestic worker, Mmatshepiso Malefane, and the United Reformed Church in Pimville, among others. “All benefits accruing to an heir and/or beneficiary in terms of my last will and testament shall for all purposes be excluded from any community of property, or community of profit and loss. "The accrual system in terms of the Matrimonial Property Act, 1984 (Act 88 of 1984) shall not apply to benefits derived from my will,” Mosunkutu stated in his will. His family claimed they had not seen Mosunkutu since mid-2017 when he was hospitalised. “Khabisi divorced his wife in 2015 but he never moved out of the house. "Despite everything that he went through, we would always say that he loved his children and that everything that he was doing was for them. “His phones were taken so we could not call him. Whenever we went to the house, the gates would be locked and we would be denied entry,” another relative said. The family said they only learnt about the 2013 will last Tuesday, a day before the funeral was scheduled to take place. Isaac, who was in possession of the will, had suddenly been admitted to Chris Hani Baragwanath Academic Hospital on December 26 after Nonqaba insisted that he should go there for a “check up”. Nonqaba denied this, saying the family had not seen Mosunkutu since 2012. “She accused us of wanting to take a share of her husband's inheritance. She said the will was forged and that she had the one from 2011. "We do not know who was buried because we were excluded from the funeral arrangements,” another relative said.  