Phiwayinkosi Mhlongo, 17, released a hearty laugh when he described how he received the moniker, which he is now proud of. “I was always dirty when I was growing up. I enjoyed mixing cement and building small structures at home. That is why my community members decided to call me Mangcola,” he said. Phiwayinkosi achieved a bachelor degree pass and seven distinctions in isiZulu, English, technical mathematics, life orientation, civil technology, engineering graphics design and technical sciences. Born and raised in Eshowe - a rural community in KwaZulu-Natal - Phiwayinkosi left home when he was 12 years old after being scouted by football coaches, who lured the youngster to Soweto. He credits his mother for raising him well in order for him to be able to take care of himself in an area foreign to him, culturally and geographically. “My mother taught me everything when I was young; how to cook, do my own laundry and clean up after myself. “Yes, it was tough at times to stay alone, but my mother's lessons gave me strength for me not to be afraid to live alone,” Phiwayinkosi said. Phiwayinkosi was speaking to The Star on the sidelines of the breakfast briefing which Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga hosted for top achievers for the National Senior Certificate's class of 2018. He will be studying civil engineering at Wits University this year on a full bursary after excelling at school doing technical subjects, which included civil technology, technical science and engineering graphic design at Bona Comprehensive School in Orlando, Soweto. Phiwayinkosi was at the prestigious breakfast with his parents - mother Khanyisile Mpanza and father Sibusiso Mhlongo. Both parents were resplendent in their traditional Zulu attire, saying they had dressed up in order to celebrate their son's wonderful achievement. “I honestly don't know what to say. I’m so proud of my boy because he has given us a wonderful recognition in our community,” an overjoyed and emotional Khanyisile said. The mother added that she was afraid for her son when he left for Soweto at a tender age, but said she had to allow the boy to go and realise his dreams. Khanyisile’s views were echoed by Sibusiso, who said although the family believed that Mangcola was pursuing his football dreams, they now believe his real purpose was a quality education.