Last year saw many rising stars stake a claim in the entertainment industry. New faces on television screens and new voices on the airwaves have been a breath of fresh air. Here’s a look at some to watch out for this year: (Pictures: Instagram) Larona Moagi Moagi, a 22-year-old law student, auditioned by chance for a role in The River and got the part. As she hones her craft on the hit 1 Magic show, the rising star is gaining a huge following as a stellar actress in the making.   Letuka Dlamini The 30-year-old plays the starring part of a sinister preacher’s son, Duduzane, in the Moja Love telenovela Hope. The Soweto actor previously starred in the Gold Diggers series, but his Hope role has pushed his popularity to greater heights.  Yanga Sobetwa, Idols winner The teenager became a firm favourite with viewers for her sultry voice. She was also likened to hitmaker Zahara, with many believing they were related. The talented singer should have many years of stardom ahead of her.  Nuz Queen Though the spotlight was one filled with drama last year, the self-proclaimed queen seems to be here to stay. The infamous Laze Lavuka anthem has to be a serious contender for one of the strongest songs of last year.   TDK Macassette (Thandeka Mkhwanazi) She started out last year with a bang and a feisty attitude that should see her make even more waves in the coming year. The Domoroza singer can leave the 2018 drama behind and prepare for more hits.  Michelle Mosalakae The model and actress was swooped on by Revlon for her striking looks and also landed a role on The Queen on Mzansi Magic, catapulting her to the attention of an even larger audience. This year should have a lot more on offer for Mosalakae - just watch her rise.  Nomalanga Shozi The new face of BET Africa is a funky, fresh-looking beauty. The talented presenter is also an actress, most notably for her role in Rhythm City. She recently co-hosted the Black Coffee: Music Is King festival alongside Siyabonga Ngwekazi and Anele Mdoda.   These actors, singers and presenters are sure to keep South Africans entertained. The new year promises to be filled with talent galore. @mane_mpi