Madiba lived in the Alex home when he first moved to Joburg from the Eastern Cape, 75 years ago. He later left the Alex house to move to Soweto after making it his home from 1941 to 1944. The historic Alex house which the Gauteng government promised to convert into a museum has been “abandoned, and left to deteriorate”. A long-time resident in the township has blamed the government, and said it was dragging its feet and failing to keep its promise. Linda Twala, who has been going up and down approaching government offices to speed up the process, said he was concerned the government had abandoned the house and the entire township, while many streets in Soweto were converted into heritage sites to honour apartheid Struggle stalwarts. Madiba lived in this Alex home when he first moved to Joburg from the Eastern Cape, 75 years ago “People from the government were here (in the house) a few years after Mandela was released from jail. They made a promise to convert the house into a museum, but now they are playing hide and seek. “Even the plaque that you see, I forced them to install it in 2001,” Twala said. He said the family currently occupying the house wanted to extend and renovate it. “That would mean a great part of South African history would be dead. I asked the family to move out and I wanted to build a house for them, but someone among the people I work with came here and told them not to leave as they are sitting on millions,” Twala said. The house shares a piece of land with two houses and the entire yard is occupied by 16 families. The Star found that the historic house has cracks from the roof down to the door. Some materials like the door Madiba used, have been broken down and placed just outside the house. A few meters away from the house, there is a community heritage centre which started to operate last year, after many years of being built. Twala said he also asked the City of Joburg to put the house under the centre, and turn the whole street into a heritage site but without success. Mandela’s house in Alexandra is not the only neglected home of South African stalwarts. After years of empty promises, Arts and Culture Minister Nathi Mthethwa said in April that the government would renovate Winnie Madikizela-Mandela’s Brandfort house in the Free State. Madikizela-Mandela spent nearly a decade at the house on Mothupi Street in Majwamasoeu Township. Mthethwa introduced the appointed contractor to commence with the restoration of the house and the bombed clinic. The plan was to convert the house and clinic to interpretative spaces and a multi-purpose centre with Wi-Fi facilities. The initial announcement that Madikizela-Mandela’s house would become a heritage site was made in 2005 and the project was supposed to be completed by January 2015. There has, however, been some success in the initiative to preserve the historical homes of Struggle stalwarts. World-renowned author and traditional healer Credo Mutwa and his family moved into a large refurbished home in Kuruman, Northern Cape. On November 22, Mthethwa handed over the home to Mutwa following the minister’s 2017 visit to the Credo Mutwa Museum and Library in Kuruman. During that visit, it was brought to his attention that the roof at Mutwa’s home was in a bad condition and that the home was dilapidated. Mthethwa said the refurbishment of Mutwa’s home was part of the department’s programme to recognise and celebrate those who contributed to the new South Africa. Last year, the chairperson of the portfolio committee on basic education and former Northern Cape MEC for Sport, Arts and Culture, Bongiwe Mbinqo-Gigaba, announced the first phase of the renovations to the former law office of Struggle stalwart Robert Sobukwe in Kimberly. The office was declared a heritage site in 2005 and renovated in 2012 with about R67000 reportedly spent on the project.