In an effort to reduce the number of fatalities on the road, traffic officials will be deployed everywhere this festive season. The #LiveBeyondDecember Arrive Alive Campaign was the central message delivered by Transport Minister Fikile Mbalula on Tuesday at the inspection of the National Traffic Control Centre and the Gauteng Central Operations Centre. The Control Centre collects and collates national statistics pertaining to South Africa’s road network, while the latter oversees the freeway network in Johannesburg, Ekurhuleni and Tshwane, in real time, using live visuals. The visit was an opportunity for the Minister to inspect some remote technologies used to monitor and respond to traffic movement and emergencies. The Control Centre personnel showed how remote technologies can be effectively used to monitor accidents that happen on the freeway. They will help reduce the number of accidents on the road. There are 298 CCTV cameras in Gauteng that monitor freeway roads. He said the centres would ensure safety on the roads as motorists travelled back home and warned them not to drink and drive. Mbalula said accidents usually occur when drivers avoid basic things like not putting on safety belts or not adhering to the speed limit because some accidents did not happen in areas where there was a lot of traffic. “This was mainly to show the capacity we have got in terms of safety and monitoring what happens around particularly in areas that attract high volumes of traffic and how we respond expeditiously,” he said. Depending on the type of incident it was said to take less than 10 minutes to get to an incident and be able to assist. Traffic Management Center Acting Manager Sipho Langa explained how they operated 24/7 throughout the year. He said as soon as they detected an incident they dispatched metro police officers to the location for assistance. “We have what we call VDS video detecting sensors, they help to see average speed of vehicles which lets drivers know on the road how long it takes to get to a certain destination. There's also a Medical Response Unit which helps get people medical attention as quickly as possible when needed,” he said. In cases of load shedding Engineering Executive of the South African National Roads Agency Limited (SANRAL)  Louw Kannemeyer said they had backup generators that kept the center operating 24/7. He said the cameras however have a limited battery backup of 2 hours and will shut down when the batteries are low. Last week, Mbalula launched the Festive Season Road Safety Campaign and showcased various on-site technologies used to combat road carnage, and on Tuesday was a continuation of the project. “This coming week and next week, the number of people going home on the road is going to increase and equally the work is going to increase to ensure people arrive alive,” Mbalula said. He also took a moment to congratulate law enforcement officials on a job well done in terms of continuing enforcing the law on the roads. Mbalula said they had more than 200 cameras deployed on the highways that monitored all incidents detected. “The help of technology contributes a lot in terms of making and clearing the space,” he said.