Artists such as Black Coffee, Nasty C, Burna Boy, AKA, Cassper Nyovest, Sjava, Sun-El Musician dominate locally, while Ed Sheeran, Drake and Khalid are the top international artists on the continent. The top playlists range from Mzansi House, Afrobeats Hits, Mzansi Hip-Hop, Afrikaanse Treffers, Gqom Nation to danceXL, Chill House, The A-List: Hip-Hop and many more. Africa is home to a great tapestry of cultures and music genres and Apple Music has shown unwavering support to many musicians from the continent, offering the perfect platform for artistic exposure and development. It is also committed to showcasing the immense talent coming from Africa and across the world. Here are Apple Music’s top artists, albums, songs and playlists from South Africa for the last four years: * Top South African artists on Apple Music from the last four years: Nasty C Joyous Celebration AKA Sjava Cassper Nyovest Mlindo The Vocalist Black Coffee Goldfish Snotkop Sun El Musician  * Top local songs in South Africa from the last four years: Black Coffee & David Guetta feat. Delilah Montagu - Drive Goldfish feat. Diamond Thug - Deep of the Night Lady Zamar - Collide Prince Kaybee feat. Busisiwa & TNS - Banomoya Kwesta feat. Wale - Spirit Sun El Musician feat. Samthing Soweto - Akanamali AKA feat. Kiddominant - Fela In Versace TiMO ODV - Dancing Again DJ Sumbody Feat. Cassper Nyovest, Thebe & Veties - Monate Mpolaye Shekhinah - Suited  * Top local albums in South Africa from the last four years: Nasty C - Strings And Bling Mlindo The Vocalist - Emakhaya AKA - Touch My Blood Sjava - Umqhele Shekhinah - Rose Gold Sun-El Musician - Africa to the World Cassper Nyovest - Thuto Simmy - Tugela Fairy Amanda Black - Amazulu Joyous Celebration - Joyous Celebration 22: All for You (Live)  * Top Africa albums in sub-Saharan Africa from the last four years: Nasty C - Strings And Bling Mlindo The Vocalist - Emakhaya AKA - Touch My Blood Shekhinah - Rose Gold Sjava - Umqhele Burna Boy - Outside Sun-El Musician - Africa to the World Cassper Nyovest - Thuto Simmy - Tugela Fairy Black Coffee - Music is King EP