Limited Limited opportunities, lack of funding and support, graduates exploitation. These were some of the frustrations expressed by unemployed youth at the inaugural Ekurhuleni Youth Unemployment Summit held at the Emperors Palace last Friday. The summit was organised by the City of Ekurhuleni against the backdrop of South Africa’s high unemployment rate [the youth constitute 55% of the total unemployment rate of just over 27%] declared a “national crisis” by president Cyril Ramaphosa. The youth unemployment summit saw local government officials, the private sector and the youth within the Ekurhuleni region engage in a conversation, seeking sustainable solutions and charted a way forward. An industrial region, Ekurhuleni is one of South Africa’s biggest metros and contributes approximately 8.8% to the country’s economy. The region contributes 23.4% to the total Gauteng economy. Around 26.4% of the City’s economic capacity is produced in the Kempton Park areas, followed by Alberton (19.3%), Edenvale (15.2%), and Benoni (14.7%). Ekurhuleni Human Settlements MMC, Lesiba Mpya told the summit that the City of Ekurhuleni wanted to position itself as more than just economic and industrial powerhouse, but also a place where people were encouraged to live, play and invest. To this end,Mpya said, “Ekurhuleni prides itself in the relations it has with all its stakeholders. We seek to continue to strengthen such relations, particularly with the private sector. One of the ways we aim to achieve these strengthened relations is by entering into various social compacts that deal with youth unemployment, inequality and poverty,” said Mpya. He added that the youth summit was critical to youth development because it served as a “platform on which to engage young people and expose them to captains of industry, the private sector and government in an effort to realise the innovations of tomorrow, which depend on the opportunities made available and accessible for young people today.” Dr Haiyan Song, CEO of Aberdare Cables reaffirmed his company’s commitment to South Africa and creating jobs and opportunities. Dr Song said its parent company, Hengtong, invested R250 million in SA and the Ekurhuleni region. He said the company’s commitment to develop skills among young people in South Africa was reflected in its bursary scheme where it contribute 100% tuition fees for local students studying electrical engineering. Joseph Mudau, head of training at the Gibela Rail Consortium which earned a mention in Ramaphosa’s state of the nation debate, said his company has committed huge resources to address the much lamented skills development gap. Mudau pointed to Gibela’s apprenticeship and artisan programmes and its bursary scheme as concrete examples of how it is helping to dent unemployment. He added that their apprentice and artisan programmes are structured in such a way as to absorb these people into formal employment. During a panel discussion between five young unemployed people, the youth were urged to “seize the moment,” “take charge of their future,” be “proactive,” and not wait on “government to do everything.” Panelist, Lerato Mokoenyane said if young people had the drive and determination, they would succeed no matter what the obstacles.  Another young panelist, Kolobe Mamabolo suggested that big business be part of the curriculum development in higher education so that students were trained in line with the demands and requirements of the workplace. This, he said, would go a long way in clearing the backlog of graduates who spend years at tertiary institutions only to discover their knowledge and skills were not what was needed or required. Chaile Makaleng, the interim CEO of SAA Technical, moved by the desperate experiences shared, promptly announced that the parastatal would extend the deadline for bursary applications by one week, and instructed staff to ferry 100 applications to Emperors Palace, where the youth unemployment summit was held. The youth were advised to take up any volunteer and internship opportunities as this would help offset the lack of experience on their CVs. Sakhile Siwela, founder of Spartan-based Flolite, announced that his lighting company is planning to offer 200 learnerships at his firm and called on potential partners to step up. Siwela believes that expanding South Africa’s local manufacturing base would help dent the high unemployment rate and also promote the ‘Buy SA Campaign.’ Young Ekurhuleni CFO is equal to the task Newly appointed chief executive of the city of Ekurhuleni Kagiso Lerutla will have his work cut out in trying to ensure a lasting financial stability at one of South Africa’s largest metros in the country. He is planning to channel the city’s finances towards programmes that are geared towards boosting economic growth and create much needed jobs in the region. The metro’s youngest ever CFO will oversee municipal coffers worth around R50-billion, and says one of his key responsibilities within the metro was to generate a clean audit. “This is important in building residents’ confidence in the metro,” Lerutla said. The City of Ekurhuleni contributes approximately 8.8% to the country’s national economy. The 33-year-old from Benoni says he is undaunted by the task at hand, describing himself as a performance-driven team player who is confident that he has the skills, knowledge and integrity required for this position. “I have been part of local government for five years, and in that time I’ve taken on different responsibilities at senior level. Working in government is highly regulated and you need someone that understands legislation and the workings of local government. I am familiar with the challenges the metro faces which puts me in a better position to succeed,” said Lerutla. The new CFO, is a member of the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants, first joined the City in 2014 as Divisional Head: Governance and Compliance within the Finance Department, having previously worked in the office of the Auditor General. Lerutla says his appointment is a generational victory for the youth. “I have been given an opportunity to serve in a critical, strategic position which comes with a lot of expectation. The challenge is to make sure I deliver as a good foundation to other young officials in the future. He added that a big plus is that as a resident of Ekurhuleni, he understands the struggles people are facing. “When we have no water or electricity, I can relate.” He says as GCFO, he wants to affirm Ekurhuleni in terms of attaining clean audit status. “We want to improve the level of confidence that the community has in us by using our budget in the right manner… And create an environment where the metro is financially sustainable.” Lerutla, with a BCompt degree from the University of Limpopo and a BCom Accounting Honours degree from the University of Johannesburg, believes the input of the community is vital in any process in government. “It’s their budget and it must respond to their needs.” He says a major challenge is when national treasury adopts policies that have a direct impact on the residents without adequately consulting them. Lerutla gives an example of such a practice: “The national treasury believes the money should be spent on a project such as new clinics across the country, but the community doesn’t agree that they need this clinic and subsequently shut down the project.” He wants the needs of Ekuthuleni to be balanced with what national treasury is proposing. Responding to assertions of so-called ‘deals in the dark’, Lerutla says the City of Ekurhuleni is one of the few municipalities that comply with the Constitution in terms of section 207, which requires transparency. “Being transparent is the only way we can gain the people’s trust and assure them we are doing the right thing. It will show them we are an institution of integrity if they see and understand what we are doing. We urge residents to attend our monthly council and special meetings. We believe in transparency and the first thing we need to invest in is the community’s understanding of what is happening in finance,” Lerutla says. Corrupt contractors, however, will feel the full weight of his office. “Where contractors fail to meet their contractual obligations, we will take the legal route. We will blacklist them and take appropriate steps to recover the funds.” Speaking of Lerutla’s appointment, which coincided with the onset of Youth Month, Ekurhuleni Mayor Mzwandile Masina said: “As the country prepares to commemorate the 1976 Soweto Uprising on the 16th June, the appointment of Mr Lerutla as GCFO is a reflection of the City of Ekurhuleni’s commitment to youth development and entrusting young people with great responsibilities. We trust that Mr Lerutla will serve the City diligently.” Private sector promises more jobs for Ekurhuleni Aberdare Cables – one of the biggest manufacturing companies in the world – committed during the Ekurhuleni Youth Summit on Unemployment to invest R250 million in South Africa, with the large chunk of the investment channelled to the Ekurhuleni region, its base. The 72-year-old company, which employs over 1 500 people in the Ekurhuleni region, has also committed to continue its invest in skills development initiatives through its STEAM Rising programme. Speaking on the sidelines of the Ekurhuleni-organized youth summit on Friday, Aberdare Cables CEO Dr Haiyan Song said the company has set aside over R250 million to boost the South African economy- with the Ekurhuleni region expected to benefit more. “The new investments will include fibre optic plants in Ekurhuleni. We are also looking at expanding our operations to other provinces in the country,” said Song. Last year, Aberdare Cables recommitted itself to its pledge to contribute significantly to South Africa’s skills development by donating 140 eLearning tablets to rural and township schools in Pietermaritzburg, KwaZulu-Natal. “As a responsible corporate citizen, Aberdare Cables took upon itself to support previously disadvantaged schools by providing technological devices and computers to make sure that the learners in these schools are not left behind,” Song added. The Ekurhuleni Youth Summit on Unemployment was convened against the backdrop of South Africa’s stubbornly high jobless rate, which was declared a “national crisis” by President Cyril Ramaphosa during his SONA address last month. Other prominent companies that attended the Ekurhuleni youth summit on unemployment included Gibela Rail Consortium and the South African Airways. Gibela’s Nigel facility is at the cutting edge of train production – providing on-site maintenance and engineering services, a training facility for railway-specific artisan skills. The Consortium has secured a 10-year, R51 Billion contract to build trains for the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (PRASA), enlisting majority local suppliers. The R1.58 Billion invested has so far generated 1,500 direct jobs and thousands of indirect jobs through the supply chain over a 10-year period. Delivering his State of the Province on Monday, Gauteng Premier David Makura said the Gibela R50 billion investment was expected to create over 15 000 new jobs [in Ekurhuleni area] over the next decade. Joseph Mudau, Head of Training and the main driver behind the company’s efforts to tackle Ekurhuleni’s high youth unemployment rate said:: “The company is always working towards employing local job seekers, developing a strong supply chain of local businesses, contributing to education and skills development, and improving the living conditions of the people near our operations through community development projects.” Over a 10-year period, the company has committed to train and develop 19 000 young people through bursaries at universities and TVETs, learnerships, apprenticeships, internships and technical skills programmes. It houses a state-of-the-art training facility at its Ekurhuleni base. The company urged Ekurhuleni job seekers to check out ‘Gibela: Make a difference,’ a dedicated portal loaded with information on the many opportunities and supports the Consortium offers. Chaile Makaleng, the interim CEO of SAA Technical, moved by the desperate experiences shared, at the Ekurhuleni Youth Summit, promptly announced that he is extending the deadline for bursary applications by one week, and instructed staff at SAA to ferry 100 applications to the summit venue. Makaleng said SAA was partnering with the Basic Education Department to identify needy schools to assist. “SAA Technical is also ‘following’ the City of Ekurhuleni wherever and whenever they are undertaking youth unemployment initiatives so that SAA can “engage and share opportunities at the airline with the youth,” said Makaleng. He advised the youth of Ekurhuleni to take up any volunteer and internship opportunities as this would help offset the lack of experience on their CVs. Youth development at the centre of the city’s plan to tackle unemployment Ekurhuleni Human Settlements MMC, Lesiba Mpya told the Youth Summit on Unemployment that the Metro has restructured its budget to put youth development at the centre of its efforts to tackle youth unemployment. He added that this youth summit was critical to youth development because it served as a “platform on which to engage young people and expose them to captains of industry, the private sector and government in an effort to realise the innovations of tomorrow, which depend on the opportunities made available and accessible for young people today.” He said “Ekurhuleni prides itself in the relations it has with all its stakeholders. We seek to continue to strengthen such relations, particularly with the private sector. One of the ways we aim to achieve these strengthened relations is by entering into various social compacts that deal with youth unemployment, inequality and poverty.” The MMC cautioned that the Summit should not descend into just another talk shop; and industry and Ekurhuleni must leave with “firm commitments and a review in 5 months to evaluate commitments made.” He said the City is willing to make huge sacrifices to develop its youth, and warned that youth unemployment posed a threat to democracy. Mpya said the time for talking is over as the youth were getting “increasingly impatient.” He shared that the Ekurhuleni Metro has added 1500 learnerships and increased its bursary allocation 10-fold. He also pointed to the Ekurhuleni Aerotropolis, where the Metro, in partnership with the Gauteng Provincial Government, is leveraging the economic potential of OR Tambo International Airport. The aerotropolis is expected to generate a socio-economic impact of about R8.1-billion a year, with Ekurhuleni Executive Mayor Mzwandile Masina describing it as a “game-changing intervention” that will act as a catalyst for spatial, economic and social transformation. Mpya said the City of Ekurhuleni seeks to position itself as more than just economic and industrial powerhouse, but also a place where people are encouraged to live, play and invest.