The Soweto Theatre will once again host The Savanna Newcomer Showcase. On Sunday, 24 emerging and talented comedians from across the country will be given five minutes in front of the packed theatre to deliver the best comedy routine they’ve got, all in the hopes of being crowned at this year’s Savanna Comics’ Choice Awards (CCA’s) later this year. It’s always a hoot as newcomers stand proud, belt out their punchlines and relish in the applause of a sold-out crowd. Of course, you get the odd one or two that bomb too, but that’s all part of the fun. As the first in a series of this year’s events rolled out by the CCA’s, the showcase is a platform created to give up-and-coming comedians their time to shine, and to give the industry an inkling of who to vote for. Two comediennes looking to win are Leah Jasmine Reed and Robyn Dunlop. The ladies spoke to The Star about their funny bones and how they are using comedy to make a statement: Why choose comedy? LJR: Comedy is a way for me to use my voice to make a statement and make humour a weapon. It's how we get to laugh at an absurd world and make people see things differently. If I can make someone see something a different way through comedy I've done my job. I also just love to entertain and don't mind making a fool out of myself. RD: It's the one thing in this crazy world that makes all the sense to me. There is nothing greater than laughter! When did you decide to make this a full time career? LJR: When I landed a slot on 5fm (1am-4am every Monday) I finally had the faith that I could let go of my fears and jump into performing full-time. What can people expect from you on Sunday? LJR: A lot of surprises; I have a dirty mouth for such a cute little girl. Hopefully I'll make people think a little, though, too. What do you hope to get out of the showcase? LJR: The chance to meet so many other people playing in this space. I'm looking forward to making some connections and bringing my personal flavour of spice to Joburg. RD: The experience of a theatre show, a foot in the door of the industry at large. How are you pushing the boundaries in your comedy? LJR: I'll say things that most people are afraid to. I like to point out some of the absurdities in our culture and call things how I see them. For me it's all about using comedy to make you laugh while making a statement. RD: I'm telling stories about things people don't like to talk about. Especially from a girl. I like the shock factor and I love relating to people in ways they've never been related to before. Particularly situations girls have been in that nobody has discussed before on SA stages. The Newcomer Showcase party kicks off earlier in the outdoor precinct of the theatre with DJ’s spinning chilled Sunday beats. "It’s all about creating an unmissable afternoon of comedy, new friendships and good times," said Diego Jacobs, Savanna’s Brand Activation Manager. "This year we have gourmet food trucks and are creating an epic party buzz outside before the comedy starts indoors, it’s the best way to spend a Sunday afternoon." This year’s installment is hosted by the hilarious Tsitsi Chiumye who won last year’s Savanna Newcomer of the Year Award, a SAFTA and is a rising star in SA comedy.