The City of Ekurhuleni plans to spend almost R50 billion over the next three years to stimulate its economy and drive growth while improving service delivery to its residents and business. Plans include refurbishment of substations to “keep lights on all the time”, as well as water and sanitation facilities upgrade, investment in roads to enhance Ekurhuleni’s status as a logistics hub as well as the delivery of housing, arguably the city’s and the province’s most pressing need due to inward migration. The plans are contained in the City’s 2019/2020 budget, which was unveiled on Thursday by the Member of the Mayoral Committee for finance, ICT and Economic Development, Nkosindiphile Xhakaza, who called on council colleagues to implement the budget in an ethical and accountable manner that puts the needs of the citizen first. The budget took its cue from the Executive Mayor Mzwandile Masina’s State of the City Address, delivered two months ago under the theme “building the economy that grows in the hand of the people” and also drew inspiration from President Cyril Ramaphosa’s clarion call since assuming office just over a year ago, Thuma Mina (send me). Xhakaza noted that the budget is underpinned by a good credit rating and outlook for the City of Aaa.za by Moody’s. The city has maintained a good collection rate of revenue which currently stands at 94% of annual billings. Xhakaza notes that this is in spite of the pressures on household income as a result of slow economic growth. There is also muted growth in municipality tax base, with growth projections for the city’s main services standing at 1 % for assessment rates and solid waste, and zero for all other services. “This is an indication that the growth of the local economy remains constrained,” said Xhakaza. The overall budget for 2019/ 2020 stands at R48.9 billion, with the operating expenditure standing at R41.5 billion, an increase of R3 billion on the current financial year. The capital budget will grow by just under a billion, from R6, 5 billion to R7,4 billion. More than 80% of the budget, about R 40 billion, is funded from internally generated revenue. Xhakaza reiterated the city’s areas of priority almost since assuming office in 2016 to re industrialise the city and revive manufacturing, regenerate the city’s urban centre including Boksburg, Germiston, Kempton Park and Alberton among others, improve the mobility of its citizens through public transport and restore clean governance. Ekurhuleni has set aside R 847 million for economic development, with R296 million for the 2019/20 financial year. This allocation is for a range of key projects including the Airport Precinct and OR Tambo Springs Inland Port to strengthen logistical capabilities, the Ekurhuleni Business Centre and a number Strategic Urban Developments and mixed use developments dotted around the city. The metro has put together a R 4 billion social package aimed at its poor residents. The package comprises 100% rebate on assessment rates and free refuse removal. Free 100kWh of electricity per month, which is more than the provision made by national government policy and first 9kl of water and sewer per month is also free. In a bid to combat power shortage and satisfy power demands in line with industry and residential needs, the city has set aside R 2, 29 billion for electrification of informal settlements and R 3 billion for the refurbishment of substation and maintenance of electricity infrastructure. R 3 billion has been allocated for the maintenance of water infrastructure while another R 2billion goes to road and storm water network. An area of delivery that Xhakaza highlights is that of housing. In this budget, the City has allocated R 4,6 billion to human settlements over the next three years and R 1,6 billion in the coming financial year. When the current administration took office, the City set itself a target of delivering 100 000 housing units through its Megacity projects in collaboration with the Gauteng government. The city currently has about ten Mega Housing projects at various stages of development including at Leeuwpoort, Chief Albert Luthuli Mega projects, which contain 10 000 units as well as developments in Esselen Park and Clayville. Completed projects include Daggafontein at the outskirts of Springs. Xhakaza says the City’s role is to acquire land and provide it with bulk infrastructure and services for the province to fund the bulk of construction. He says for its part, the City has made available land and services for 64 000, although 26 000 have been built. The city has additionally provided 59 000 serviced stands for residents to build houses for themselves and continues to fund its programme of electrifying its 119 informal settlements and improve sanitation by reducing the ratio of household per toilet shared. This ensures that households are properly demarcated in an informal area and makes living conditions bearable. The Council has also set aside R 110 million for the upgrade of hostels and maintenance of hostels and rental stock. The city also has programmes to boost entrepreneurship and recently ran a competition that drew 238 entrepreneurial entries with winners sharing R 600 000. The city aims to intensify support for entrepreneurs in Information and Communication Technology, Services, Manufacturing and logistics. The Ekurhuleni Community Enterprise development Fund has been established at a cost of R 100 million to support 1800 youth and black oriented business opportunities ranging from youth brigades to black owned panel beaters to Youth Employment services placements and Technical installers. What people are saying about Finance Nkosindiphile Xhakaza's Budget speech: City of Ekurhuleni’s MMC for Finance and Economic Development presented his 2019/20 budget speech to mixed reactions from residents of the city region. Vuyisa Zitha, 29, a young social activist and entrepreneur from Thokoza, Ekurhuleni, is a member of a Non-Profit Organisation called Help a Learner Become a Student, which he runs with his brother. It was established in June 2017. “The numbers of the budget were quite good. As the youth of Ekurhuleni, it is how are the objectives of this bud-get going to be achieved. Last year there was a budget and we were told there was money dedicated to the youth but when we visit youth centres here in the City we are told the money has not trickled down to them. It therefore means we can’t access these funds from the Youth Desk”, said Zitha. Zitha appealed to the executive mayor Mzwandile Masina and his team to attend to youth issues as a matter of urgency. Nosipho Mdluli, 27, a resident of Vo-sloorus said Xhakaza’s 2019 budget was not strong on youth issues, as far as she was concerned. “The budget was fair and came out strongly but my issue is that it wasn’t strong enough on youth related challenges,” said Mdluli. “Yes, they budget has all these great programmes but we aren’t clear on how the City will go about achieving them. As a young person from Ekurhuleni I want the City to focus on the youth. We need skills that will equip us for the future as young people.” Seipati Masango, 32, a budding entrepreneur from Katlehong, said Xhakaza must empower small businesses in the metro and support SMMEs. “I was generally impressed with the budget especially expenditure that would be put towards businesses especially the Vuk’uphile Contractor Development Programme and Mintirho-ya-vulavula Community Empowerment Programme. “As a business woman I’m excited about the financial aid that will be given to businesses. My message to MMC Xhakaza is that they should build business hubs in the townships because that’s where we are operating from. We don’t want to go to suburbs anymore. Support must be given to SMMEs there”, said Masango.