Decaying urban centres are a sore sight in the City of Ekurhuleni. As a result, many businesses have deserted the central business district to look for greener pastures elsewhere. However, the situation will soon change for the better as the City of Ekurhuleni has now embarked on a comprehensive plan aimed at refurbishing many buildings in Germiston, Boksburg, Kempton Park and the Alberton Boulevard. The City’s MMC for Finance and Economic Development Nkosindiphile Xhakaza made this commitment when he delivered his budget speech on Thursday at the Germiston Civic Centre, Ekurhuleni. “Our work to improve and give a facelift to our decaying urban centres is critical. We remain focused to turning our old CBDs, such as Germiston, Boksburg, Kempton Park and the Alberton Boulevard, into modern urban centres with a vibrant corporate look that can attract and boost investor confidence,” said Xhakaza. He added: “These CBDs will be turned into modern centres with a vibrant look set to attract much needed investment boost.” Xhakaza said there was no doubt that the City of Ekurhuleni needed to re-urbanise the city region. “We must agree to promote integrated human settlements through massive infrastructure services rollout. This includes the continuation of investment in water and energy infrastructure to ensure security of supply,” said Xhakaza. “Our roads must also be of good quality for ease of mobility for people, goods and services. In our efforts to ensure the proper habitation for our people regardless of where they are, we are allocating R4.6 billion in the MTREF and R1.6 billion for the 2019/20 financial year to the Department of Human Settlements.” Two key projects have also been identified. These are the Kempton Park CBD, which is due to receive R31 million. The Germiston CBD will receive R188 million in the financial year. Not only will city centres be given a much needed boost, money has also been set aside for the regeneration of townships in the Ekurhuleni city region. Tembisa will be allocated R75 million, Kathorus will get R75 million and Watville/Actionville will be given R110 million for the 2019/2020 financial year. Private sector to be lured to Ekurhuleni with incentives The City of Ekurhuleni aims to attract and maintain private sector investment through the use of incentives and shortening the length of time required to acquire permits and set up operations in the region. Nkosindiphile Xhakaza, the MMC for finance, ICT and Economic Development, says the city recognizes its status of contributing 26% to the Gauteng economy and 9% to South Africa’s GDP needs to be maintained and grown through private sector participation. He presented the city’s budget at the Council Chambers in Germiston on Thursday. “One of the key interventions to be concluded in the 2019/2020 municipal fiscal year is the Special Rating Areas (SRAs) policy,” Xhakaza announced in his speech. “Through this policy, the City will be offering a package of rates and taxes discount towards investment; targeting defined economic sectors and industries,” he said. An example of the policy would be a property developer receiving tax rebates on refurbishments to a building, which aids urban regeneration. He expects the policy to be finalised by Council during the second half of this year. Xhakaza says the city aims to streamline the process of applying for permits, especially when suitable is secured, for manufacturing, as competition in this area is not just with Gauteng or other provinces in South Africa but actually global. Xhakaza says by contributing their rates and taxes, the private sector can collaborate with government to help the City finance the unfunded mandate of its Intergraded Development Plan. An area of collaboration that Xhakaza cites is using company Corporate Social Investment (CSI) budgets to help the municipality fund suitably located and equipped clinics. Xhakaza notes that the city must play its part by maintaining roads, water and electricity infrastructure a task to which the metro allocated about R7,4 billion of capital expenditure in this budget.