The 10Plus is bigger in size, while the Xperia10 fits comfortably on the screen of the 10 Plus. Both are slim, a nice change for smaller hands that struggle with wider phones. The slimness of the Xperia 10 makes it easy to fit into a pocket, something smartphones are not doing much of these days but it can also easily slip out of the hand because it is so slim. The 10 Plus is longer, making it a little uncomfortable on the hand. The extra length is great for browsing the internet because you get to see much more content and don’t have to scroll as much as you would on a regular-sized phone. The 6.5 inch (6 inch for the Xperia 10) 21:9 wide display is the key selling point for the phones. It’s a wider screen that uses the same aspect ratio that movies are recorded in. It’s complemented by a wide screen with borderless design which means you can enjoy films as they are meant to be seen. In the same regard, you can record videos using the aspect ratio and feel like a professional. The 10 Plus features a 12MP and 8MP dual camera system with a 2X optical zoom for catching all the details. The Xperia 10 features a 13MP and 5MP dual camera. Both phones are sleek and fit in with today’s trends of cool blues and black phones. The devices come with a Corning Gorilla Glass 5 and a sleek metallic finish. Battery life is a key feature with Sony. In these fast-paced, app-heavy times, it’s good to know we don’t always need to rely on power banks to charge up. Sony is hands down the best when it comes to sound. The Xperias offer a whole experience with high-resolution audio and a digital sound enhancement engine. This software basically upscales the existing sound source to make it as close as possible to the original recording. A Sony is a great listening device and these two phones boast the smart amplifier so you are guaranteed richer sound with enhanced bass. For me the choice comes down to comfortability in my hands and the Xperia 10 was the better option. The Xperia 10 Plus retails for R8 999 and the Xperia 10 for R6 499.