City of Ekurhuleni Executive Mayor Mzwandile Masina says the City’s commitment to advancing a pro poor agenda which will see the economy in the hands of the people will be at the heart of the municipality service delivery programme over the next five years. The 2019/20 budget was themed ‘Building a local economy that grows in the hands of the people’, a theme that has been adopted from the State of the City Address delivered by the Executive Mayor two months ago. In that speech Cllr Masina said that ‘sustainable economic development can only be achieved when the economy is in the hands of the people.’ Mayor Masina was addressing the Council Chambers at the Germiston Civic Centre at the ocasion of the 2019/20 budget speech delivered by MMC for Finance Doctor Xhakaza. “A sustainable development can only be achieved when the economy rests in the hands of men and women who back the aspirations of the City”, said Mayor Masina. He said real economic growth could never be achieved if the people were not embedded at the centre of economic growth and development. "The aim of this budget is to bring some of the realities that are espoused in the State of the City Address at whose heart lies the resolution of the three challenges of unemployment, poverty and structural inequality that confront the people of Ekurhuleni and the people of South Africa at large. It is therefore important that we must reflect on the priorities of our city to be outlined in the budget in order for them to have a meaningful significance especially to the people of Ekurhuleni," said Masina. The City of Ekurhuleni is faced with monumental developmental challenges. The rate of unemployment is extremely high. This was exacerbated by low skills base and education which was set against a background of weak entrepreneurial culture and linkages to other metros. During the state of city address, Masina said his administration had identified that one of the core challenges of the City was that the majority of poor settlements were far away from places of economic opportunity due to no access to public transport. To address these challenges and transform public transport the City came up with plans to develop the an all-inclusive Integrated Public Transport Network System (IPTN) where trains, buses and minibus taxis would be integrated in operations . The IPTN would assist connecting the people of Ekurhuleni and make public transport more convenient and affordable. Underpinning all this was the Big Ideas for Development which the City hoped its intervention would boost its local economy. These short term reforms would prioritise areas such as job creation, increases private investment in the local economy, transport infrastructure , improved urban settlement planning and inclusivity. Masina said the City of Ekurhuleni had to ensure a better life for all its citizens. This is why the 2019/20 budget had sought to prioritize job creation, boosting economic growth and promoting local investment and the provision of social infrastructure to achieve a better life for all.