Red Bull recently hosted the 2019 Basement Hatch global programme which fosters positive change through creative solutions. The programme is aimed at improving society through the use of technology. Now in its second year in South Africa, it connects innovators who seek to use their skills and creativity to solve challenges in the world. The Basement programme started in 2015 in Sao Paolo, Brazil and is now in 22 countries. It has enabled participation for 155 innovators worldwide through the Residency programme. A Basement hatch is an interactive session of workshops, debates and lectures on the topic of technology for good. It provides aspiring innovators with a platform to share knowledge and gain hands-on experiences. Lebogang Madise, one of the speakers at the event under the theme Igniting Africa through emerging Technology for Good at the Tshimologong Precinct in Braamfontein, spoke to The Star about her STEM advocacy and the importance of not losing tech ability even when you are not working in the field. “Technical competency is important. I have done things like registering for online courses to upskill on the cloud platform and in my talk I also touched on the pitfalls as well because universities still use textbooks to teach programming when things change overtime and the material that is being referenced is outdated.” The Software Engineering graduate worked as an intern at Microsoft South Africa and then joined the Student to Business Programme, The AppFactory, as a Junior Developer. “There are ways to learn if you are learning off a book to enhance your skills. There are online forums for different programming languages that can help with resolving the issues,” she added. Her advocacy for STEM started when she volunteered with the IEEE Women in Engineering Committee. “People are starting to understand the importance of STEM.  With Maths Literacy people don’t do Maths core anymore and that means 75 percent of any STEM related course learners may want to continue with in university is ruled out. We need to talk more about the careers available to them. There are many organisations now supporting programmes that involve the teaching of coding and the exposure starts from a young age. The department of education will be implementing coding as a compulsory subject. Learning how to code will become a new form of literacy like reading and writing.” Madise was tasked with unlocking opportunities for Women in STEM by helping them take advantage of opportunities that will help them grow professionally and provide them with the necessary skills to excel. She is also a board member of GirlCode, a non-profit organisation that provides software development training opportunities for girls. But hers is to empower both boys and girls, equally. “Every child needs to be educated. We shouldn’t exclude boys. If we are to really change our computer literacy levels, we need to have equal campaigns targeting boys and girls.”