The City of Ekurhuleni has delivered a pro-poor budget with a sharp focus on stimulating the economy, says Dr Imogen Mashazi, the metro’s city manager. Mashazi, whose office played a critical role in the formulation of the budget delivered on Thursday at the council chambers, says the city’s budget was tailored to deal with challenges of inequality, poverty and unemployment. “Our people are unemployed. They are looking for jobs. They are also looking at infrastructure projects. The budget was well allocated to deal with all our challenges”, said Mashazi. The city has, for instance, committed to constructing low-income houses for communities in the metro. The city has also set itself an impressive target of 100 000 houses over the next five years, according to Mashazi. Mashazi said thus far, the city was on course to reaching its targets. “For those who can build houses, the city was developing service stands for them. The R1.6 billion for the 2019/2020 financial year allocated to the Department of Human Settlements will assist immensely in this regard,” she said. Mashazi says another biggest challenge within the City was reliable water supply. She says there is a huge budget that has been set to build reservoirs to ensure Ekurhuleni’s water network is connected. “We are dealing with spatial issues. Before 1994 we had reservoirs which were not connected to other areas. For instance we had a drought about two years ago. A full reservoir in Alberton couldn’t supply water to Benoni so we are actually dealing with that through the Aqua Leap Water project. “There is a huge budget allocated for that which is an amount of R513m,” said Mashazi. Mashazi says it is important for the city to continue prioritizing the indigent and poorest of the poor, adding that this is why such residents are getting 9kl of free water and 100kwh of electricity. Electrification of informal settlements is on top of the list of priorities for the municipality. Asked if the city has a monitoring system in place to monitor the ambitious targets set by the 2019/2020 budget, Mashazi says this would be done through the Demand Management Plan put in place by the city. “We allocate budgets to projects that are ready to be implemented. What we are trying to do is dealing with irregular expenditure. In other words, we no longer allocate budget to projects that aren’t ready for implementation because in the past this has created a lot of irregular expenditure which leads us to not achieving a clean audit,” said Mashazi. Mashazi said each and every department in the metro had its own targets, which are monitored on a quarterly basis by her office. “Those reports are presented to the City council through the internal audit division. The City of Ekurhuleni is indeed on course to implement the budget in compliance with legislation,” she said.