Year-end examinations will continue as planned at Leruntse Lesedi Secondary School in Vrischgewaagd near Delaraeyville after a fire gutted two classrooms, North West education department said on Thursday. "The incident did not affect the school much because of the two burnt classrooms. One was used as a storage for the school and another one was a classroom for the learners," said spokesman Elias Malindi. "The school has made arrangements for the smooth writing of examinations in other classrooms. There is no crisis of space currently at the school." Two classrooms and an office of the head of a department were burnt down in the early hours of October 11. One classroom was used for storage and a photocopying machine, refrigerator, microwave, textbooks, stationery packs for pupils, lawnmower, garden tools, cleaning materials, and files were completely burned down by the fire, while in the other classroom, 30 tables and 60 chairs were destroyed. North West MEC for Education Mmaphefo Matsemela, condemned the incident, describing it as barbaric. "I strongly condemn this barbaric incident of burning our school and I am appealing to our communities to report those people who committed this act to the police. These people always torment our schools by stealing the food of the learners and now they have burnt the school," she said. "This is a very crucial period within the academic year, learners should be allowed to study without any disturbance." A case of arson was opened for investigation at the Delerayville police station. The African National Congress in North West has called on the police to swiftly arrest culprits who burnt the school. "We also condemn with disdain the torching down of a school in Delareyville. We call on the law enforcement agencies to investigate this criminal act and bring the culprits to book. These barbaric incidents have a potential to erode and reverse the gains of our hard-earned democracy,"  said spokesperson Kenny Morolong.- African News Agency